Week 7 · Recitation · Video 6

So for part four we have the following. Suppose demand is still uniformly distributed with mean 0 and max 300. If the manager wants the probability of having excess inventory at the end of the semester to be less than 20%, how many books should then be ordered? So what are we facing here? We have a manager, and clearly she wants to avoid having books left at the semester. Whatever she orders before the semester, she wants to be able to sell that during the semester. So she doesn't want to go through the hassle of having to salvage those books. It could be by having some kind of promotion or having some other type of campaign in order to solve whatever is left at the end of the semester. She wants to avoid that. And what they're saying is that they want the probability of this happening to be less than 20%. So let's think about this. This is a uniformly distributed demand. So if we were to order the average, that means we're going to order 150. If we do that, we know that the probability that the demand is less than what ordered is 50%. So the probability that there's going to be a stockout is 50% and the probability there's going to be excess inventory is 50%. With the probability of excess inventory being 50%, that's too high. We want a probability of ending inventory left to be 20%. So ordering 150, average demand, is too much-- we have to lower it. The question is, how much lower than 150 should we order? Well, we want the probability of the demand to be less than Q, because when the demand is less than Q, it means that we have excess inventory. So you actually don't want it to be equal to, you want it to be less than 20%, or less than 0.2. When is this the case? Well, what is this? This is really f of Q, the cumulative distribution function. We want this to be less than 0.2. The cumulative distribution function for a uniform distribution, we found that in a previous problem. In part three we saw that this is equal to Q divided by 300. We want Q divided by 300 to be less than 0.2, which means that we need a Q, whatever Q we order, has to be less than 60. So we saw that a Q equal to 150 is too much. Really, in order to make sure that the probability of having excess inventory at the end of the semester is less than 0.2, we have to order less than 60 units. OK, so that's it. I hope going through these problems and the solutions with you helped you think about how the distribution of demand impacts the solution for single period inventory type of models. And I hope you find it insightful. Thank you so much for listening. If you any questions or comments, just use the discussion forum that you find after these video segments. Good luck.
