Week 8 · Recitation · Video 4

So part 2-- there are four different managers involved in this project-- Bob, Carol, Ted, and Alice. Each of them has a different opinion on what level of service to use for determining the safety stock. Bob suggests setting a cycle service level of 92% Carol recommends setting an item fill rate to 99%. Ted insists that there is a $2,000 penalty for each stock out event, whereas Alice is adamant that there should be a $50 penalty for each item short. Based on the most conservative suggestion, what sq policy do you recommend? So now we're moving into the timing part of the decision. In part 1 of the problem, we decided how much to order once we make a replenishment. Now we want to set a safety stock, and that safety stock is going to help us determine when to place an order. Because essentially, we're saying here we're going to have a continuous review sq policy. That means that when our inventory position reaches the reorder point s, we will order q units where q was decided in part 1. So this s, the reorder point, that has to cover-- when we decide to put in a replenishment order, whatever we have left in stock has to cover the demand during the time it takes to receive that replenishment order. So we want a reorder point to cover the demand during the lead time, plus also the safety stock that we're going to find out using one of the recommended policies here. So what are we looking at? We're looking at four different ways of setting the Safety Stock. Two of the people, Bob and Carol, they argue in terms of a service level, a percentage. So they use different ways to measure the service level, but both of them have the same way of looking at this to say we want to reach a certain service level. And to do that, we want to have a safety stock that enables us to reach that service level. Ted and Alice, they think of this slightly differently. They think in terms of a cost penalty if we run out of goods during a cycle. Ted says that there is a cost per stock out event, and Alice says there is one for each item that we're short during a cycle. So while they are different, they still have the logic that there is a penalty we can associate with running short. So we can weigh that penalty against the costs of holding inventory, basically. So we have four different ways of looking at the problem of how to determine safety stock. What we'll see is that each of these ways, no matter which way you address this problem, you will end up with a k value. And for each k value, we have a unique safety stock associated with that k value. So what I'm going to do in order to compare them and see which of these recommendations or suggestions that is the most conservative one, I will look at the k values, and then I will compare the different k values. And the most conservative suggestion-- that is, the suggestion that leads to the highest safety stock-- will be the one with highest k. So I'm going to try to find a case based on all these different suggestions. OK. So let's start with Bob. Bob says that he wants us to set the safety stock by letting the cycle service level be 92%. So what does this mean? What is the cycle service level? Well, the cycle service level is the probability that there will not be a stock out during a replacement cycle. So it's the probability that we'll not run out of inventory during a replacement cycle. Now, we're using it a SQ policy. So we know what's going to happen is we're going to have an inventory position. That inventory position is going to decrease. Once that inventory position reaches a level s, we're going to order more. We're going to place a replacement order. But since this s is positive, we know that we're not going to run out until we reach that s. So what we're really curious about-- where the danger is-- is what happens once we place that s. So during the lead time, which is one week-- during the lead time for the replenishment order, we want the probability of there not being a stock out during this period to be 92%. So let's write this down. Let's write the probability of the demand during the lead time being less than our Reorder Point. What does that mean? It means that the demand during the lead time will be less than what we have. So we will not have a stock yet. Bob says he wants that probability to be 92%, or 0.92. Now, I told you what my strategy here is. It's to search for the k value. So we're going to standardize this. So we look at the probability that the demand during the lead time minus the expected them and divided by the standard deviation is less than k, the standardized value. Now we're taking the standardized normal distribution. As you know, this is the cumulative distribution function. Sometimes, you will see capital phi of k. I'm just going to write f of k, meaning the same thing. We want this cumulative distribution to be 0.92. Now, we've seen this before. How do we find k from this? Well, we take the inverse of the standard normal distribution, and we evaluate it at 0.92. So in order to do that, I'm going to use my spreadsheet software of choice. And I'm going to use a function, which in this version is called norm s [? end. ?] And I'm going to put in 0.92, which is our probability. And we're going to see that's equal to 1.405. So our k, if we round to the next number, is 1.41. That's the k value for Bob. So let's move on to Carol. Carol also argues in terms of a service level, but she uses a different service level than Bob. She says she wants us to set the safety stock based on letting the item fill rate be 99%. So what is the item fill rate? The item fill rate is the share, or the proportion, of demand that's satisfied immediately from stock during a replenishment cycle. So we can write this down. You've seen this formula before. It's 1 minus the expected unit short, which is which is sigma over the lead time times g of k divided by q, which is the order quantity that we have. Carol says we should set the safety stock so that this probability is 99% or 0.99. So I told you the strategy that we are using here is trying to find a k for all the different suggestions. So in order to do this, we only have to move things around a little bit and evaluate it. So we're going to move 1 to the right-hand side. We're going to multiply by q and then divide by the standard deviation over the lead time. So let's do this. What we're left with is g of k. It's equal to the order quantity divided by the standard deviation of demand over the lead time minus 1.99. Right now, we know from part 1 that the order quantity that we're going to use is 710. But what is the standard deviation of demand during the lead time? Well, we know that the standard deviation of our demand on a monthly basis is 120. And we also know that we assume that there are four weeks to every month. So I'm just going to use a little box over here. And we know that the demand during the lead time is equal to-- this is what I just said, right? It's 1/4 of the demand. If we take the variance of the demand during the lead time, it's going to be equal to 1/4 times the variance of the demand. In order to find the standard deviation, we take the square root of both sides, and we're left with the standard deviation of demand during the lead time is equal to the square root of 1/4 times the square root of the variance of the demand, which is the standard deviation of demand. This, we know, is 120 from the description. So what we're going to plug in is the square root of 1/4, which is 1/2. I'm just going to write the square root of 1/4 times 120. And then we're going to multiply this by 1 minus 0.99, which is 0.01. If you use your spreadsheet software of choice, or a calculator, or use paper and pen, whichever method you decide to choose, you're going to see that this is 0.1183. So now we have our g value, the g of k. We know that the g of k is 0.1182. But we want to find a k value. We want to find k. In order to do that, I think the simplest way of moving from the g function to finding the actual k associated with that g function is to go to the standard table. You have this in the course, and it's given to you. And we will look for it. What we have here is the table, the unit normal distribution. And up here, we have the g function, and we have the k associated with that g. So what we're going to do-- we're going to move down to where we find 0.1183. The closest one we find is this one over here, 0.1181. And we see it's pretty far from this to the other ones. So whatever k value is associated with this g function will be a good k value for our purposes. We see that the k value associated with this g function is 0.81. So that will be the value that we associate with Carol-- 0.81. So that's Carol. Now let's move on to Ted and Alice and the cost minimizers. And let's start with Ted, the first one. So I'm going to move to a new sheet of paper, and I'm going to start by putting out Ted over here. What Ted says-- he wants us to set the safety stock taking into account a penalty for each stock out event. And he says that the penalty is $2,000 each time we have a stock out event. So we're going to try to weigh that penalty against the costs of holding the safety stock, the holding cost of holding that safety stock. So in order to do this, we're going to look at the relevant costs. And as you know from the lesson, the relevant costs are those costs that are affected by our decision. Once we have an expression for the relevant cost, we're going to use first order conditions. So we're going to take the derivatives that are equal to 0 in order to find a point that minimizes this expression. And it's the k that minimizes the expression they're looking for. We're looking for the k so we can compare them. So let's write down the total relevant cost. I'm going to call it trc. And they are going to be equal to the holding cost times k times sigma during the lead time, which is the safety stock cost. And then we have the penalty cost, which is b, and b is 2,000. Then we have the number of cycles that we're looking at times the probability of a stock out in each cycle. What's the probability of a stock out? Well, we will have a stock out when the demand during the lead time is greater than the reorder point. Because it means that we're going to have more demand than what we have left in stock, so we're going to run out. There's going to be a shortage. Just like we did for Bob, we're going to look at the standardized normal distribution. So with the standardized normal distribution, we know that this probability over here is 1 minus the cumulative distribution at k. That's the probability of demand being greater than k. Once we have this, now we want to take first order conditions. So we're going to differentiate it with respect to k. Here, we have a constant in front of k, so we're left with ce times sigma l. We also have a constant here-- the penalty times d divided by q times the derivative of this function over here. The derivative of this function is simply a cumulative distribution function, so it's the probability density function that we're left with as a derivative. Set all of this equal to 0, because we want to minimize it. Now, in order to get any further, we need to know what this is. And since we're looking at a standardized normal distribution, we can find this out. And we know that this is equal to minus e to the power of k squared divided by 2, and all of this divided by the square root of 2 pi. So now we simply have to plug this in and solve it. So let's start over here-- ce sigma l-- minus now, because we have minus e-- b eq times e to the power of k squared divided by 2, all of this divided by the square root of 2 pi equal to 0. Now, we can simply move the second part over to the right-hand side, do some multiplication. And then we're going to see-- so let's do that. We have ce sigma l times square root of 2 pi. And that is equal to b dq-- or d divided by q-- e to the power of this. So we're going to move this part over, and then we're going to take the natural logarithm in order to get closer to finding k. So let's do that. Let's see. We're going to have q divided by-- let's just take b and d ce sigma l 2 pi. And we're going to take the natural logarithm of all of this. What we're left with is minus k squared divided by 2. Now we have a minus sign on the right-hand side. So we can get rid of that, or we can multiply the left-hand side by minus 2. What we get-- we get 2 ln. And then we can swap things around, so we'll have bd divided by q, and then we take all of this which we had on the top before. All of this is equal to k-- actually, k squared. So let's take the square of all this, and then we have our k. So now, once again, all we have to do-- we have our k. All we have to do is plug all of these numbers in, either into a spreadsheet software of choice or your calculator of choice. And you will see that all of this will become equal to 1.92. So that's the k value for Ted. OK. So let's move on to Alice. We're going to need another sheet of paper. Just like Ted, she argued that there is a penalty. But Ted said it was a penalty per stock out event. Alice says there's a penalty for each unit that we short during a cycle. So just like for Ted, we're going to try to find an expression for the relevant cost, the total relevant cost, and then we're going to try to minimize them, taking into consideration this penalty. So we'll have a slightly different relevant cost function for Ted, because we're looking at a different penalty function. So let's write it down. We have total relevant cost. I'm going to call it trc again. Just like the Ted, we have a cost for the safety stock, which is the holding cost times the expected safety stock. And then we have a penalty cost. And this penalty cost will be per units short. So we're going to call the shortage cost c of s, and we're going to look at the expected units short, which is sigma times the loss function. And then we take d divided by q to find the number of cycles we're looking at. OK. So just like for Ted, we need to differentiate this. We're going to use first order conditions and find the point where the derivative is 0, which will be the k that minimizes this relevant cost function. So we differentiate it with respect to k. And for the first part, we're left with the constant c times sigma l. And then we have here-- the only thing that depends on k is the g function. So let's write down the whole constant term, which is this over here. And now we have to figure out what the derivative of g of k is with respect to k. Remember the last recitation, where I showed you how to take the derivative of the expected sales function. And we know that the expected sales plus the expected units short would be equal to the expected demand. So if you write this down, we know that the-- if we call the expected sales s of k, we know that the derivative of this with respect to k-- d with respect to k-- that that is equal to 1 minus the cumulative at k. So since we know that the units short is equal to-- expected demand is called x, because it's standardized-- minus the expected sales of k, we know that the derivative of this with respect to k is equal to something that does not depend on k minus this derivative over here, which is 1 minus f of k. So let's plug that in. Let's plug in f of k minus 1. And we're going to set all of this equal to 0, because we want to minimize it. So now we have our expression. Let's see what we can do with it. I'm going to put this over here. I'm going to move the rest to the right-hand side. And we're going to have cs, this whole constant term. And I'm going to move these around, because [? take ?] minus. So now let's see. See that we have this on both sides. They will cancel out, and then we're going to have-- if we move the constants over to the left-hand side, we're going to have q times ce divided by d times cs. And this is going to be equal to 1 minus cumulative. So we know how to move along now, because this we saw when we evaluated for Bob in the beginning how to do this. Let's see. We'll see the k. k is equal to the inverse of our standardized normal distribution. And it's 1 minus this term over here, which is q ce divided by d, the demand. That's the shortage cost. So what do we get? Well, I'm going to open my spreadsheet software of choice. I'm going to move to another tab where I put in the values. And if you see here, we have q, which we know from before is 710. Demand-- we need to be careful now, so we use the yearly values, because that's what we have a rate. Our holding cost rate is on a yearly basis, so we need to use yearly demand. Here we take the rate times the value that we have, 155 per unit, and 50, which was given as Alice's penalty cost for each unit over short. Now, if I just take the ratio that we found out, its 0.04. So I want to find a norm s in the inverse. And we can take the probability. And the probability, as we saw in my calculations, is 1 minus this ratio over here. So let's see what we get. We'll get 1.72. So let's plug that in. And we know that the k value for Alice is 1.72. So now we have all the k values. So let's summarize this. We had Bob. His suggestion led to a k value of 1.41. Carol-- her suggestion led to a k value of 0.81. Ted-- he had a suggestion, and we saw that his k value became 1.92. And then finally, we just looked at Alice. And with Alice's suggestion, we get a k value of 1.72. So we have four different k values. These are all legitimate ways of finding a safety stock. And we see that the one k value, the one of the four suggestions that leads to the highest k value, is this, Ted. So he has the most conservative idea about how much safety stock we should have. And that's based on his big penalty for having a stock out event. So the problem was to set an sq policy. We want to decide when we're going to order. So what is the policy going to be like? The reorder point s-- I told you before really quickly that we want this reorder point to cover our expected demand during the lead time, and then we want to have some safety stock. And the safety stock is determined by the k value, which we just calculated. So if we use Ted's suggestion, what reorder point s do we get? Well, the expected demand during lead time is 650. And then we have to divide it by 4, because that was our monthly number. And lead time is only one week. Then we have the k value-- so plus 1.22. We just found out that was the most conservative one. And the standard deviation of demand during the lead time-- well, we saw before that this is the square root of 1/4 times 120. So I'm just going to write 60, which is shorter for square root of 1/4 times 120. And if you take all of this and just plug the numbers in, you will see that we end up with 277.8, which is roughly equal to 278. So what does this mean? Well, it means that once our inventory position reaches 278 or below, we're going to place a replenishment order. So our policy that we get is we're going to order 710 units-- that's the quantity decision-- order 710 units when the inventory position is equal to or below 278. So that is the policy based on the most conservative idea about how to set safety stock for our system. So that's it. We have a quantity. We have a timing. We know how to set up our inventory system in order to minimize total cost based on our suggestions on how to set safety stock. So I hope you found this if not enjoyable, at least enlightening in that it helped you solving the other problems that we have for this week. So thank you so much for listening. And I'm sure I'm going to be speaking to you pretty soon again. Good luck.
