Week 8 · Recitation · Video 3

So, part 1 says the following-- what is your expected order quantity for the XC-908 in units using the EOQ formula? So, the first decision that we're going to look at is the quantity decision. How much should we order every time we place a replenishment order? Now, it's specified here that we're going to use the EOQ formula. Why would a company want to use the EOQ formula? Well, as we saw in the description, we're looking at a fairly stable demand pattern. And we know that, when we have a fairly stable demand pattern, the EOQ formula is going to give us a very good order quantity. It's going to give us an order quantity that's very close to the actual optimal order quantity. So, in this case, the company has decided that that's the way to go. And you've seen in previous recitations and in the lessons how you find the EOQ formula. So, I'm just going to write down the actual formula. EOQ is equal to 2 times the cost of placing the order, the cost associated with every order, times the demand, divided by the cost of holding inventory. And you might have heard different words for describing the different parameters, and you will see that, in different sources, depending on where you look, you'll find different ways of naming them, different conventions. The important thing is that you understand how to use information that you have to plug it in in the right place. So, based on information that we have, a 2 is still 2, so we're going to put a 2 there. Then, we know that, for every order, we have an order cost, which is $750. We know that our demand is 650 units per month. And now we have to be careful, because 650 units, that's given per month, but the rate that we're going to have to determine our cost of holding inventory, that's given per year. It's said to be $0.15 for every dollar and year, so we have to be careful so we use the same time unit when we look at this chunk of time on our time horizon. So, what I'm going to do, I'm going to multiply this by 12 so we get a yearly rate. And then I'm going to divide this by the holding cost, which was $0.15, times up here for every dollar of value that we have in inventory. And, for every unit, that's going to be $155. That's the cost, so we can assume that's the value of the item that we put in inventory. Then, we take the square root of this, and you can use your spreadsheet software of choice, you can use a calculator, or you can do it by hand. And what you will find, whichever method you choose, is that this is equal to 709.38, which we round 710 units. So, that's our quantity decision. That's how much we want to order every time we place a replenishment order. That's the first decision. Now, let's move on to the timing decision. I hope you're ready. Here we go.
