So now let's turn to metrics. And specifically, I want to get a little theoretical and talk about the fundamental nature of performance metrics. Now, we talked about the process view, and we've talked about how supply chain-- each of the sub-functions are really a process that take inputs, some value of inputs, and through some process, turns them into outputs. And whether it's inputs or raw materials to a finished good being manufactured, if it's orders turned into deliveries, we transform the process-- inputs to outputs. Now, to make sense of the inputs, I need to compare them to some normative value. I need to know how much I have to start with. Same thing with output. It's more of a quality metric. I want to know how many performed a certain way. So I have to be able to compare them to something in order to make sense of them and make them relative comparisons instead of some absolute random number. Now, if I look at this process view where I have inputs transformed into outputs, then there's only really three ways that I can measure this. There are three dimensions of performance. I can measure the utilization-- how well I'm utilizing the inputs that I have available to me. I can look at the productivity or efficiency, and that's how well the process is converting inputs into outputs. Or I can look at the quality or the effectiveness of the outputs. So these are really just comparisons. The utilization is the actual input over the normalized input-- how much did I use versus how much did I have available. The actual output to the actual input is the productivity or efficiency-- so how much did I produce versus how much I used to produce that. And then the output is how much should I produce compared to some standard. How many orders did I deliver on time compared to the number of orders that I delivered? What's that percent? So you can see there are three main ways that I can measure the performance of this process, the supply chain process. So let me talk about each of them individually for just a second. Utilization-- so this is a measure of input usage. We usually present this as a ratio of the actual amount compared to some value-- my capacity, typically, so the number of labor hours used in the course of a month divided by the budgeted hours that I had, the percent of the warehouse that I'm using-- so the area occupied versus total area. Machine capacity, same thing-- how much did I use versus how much did I have available. If I move productivity or efficiency, this is measured a lot, because this is something that's pretty easy to capture. Ton miles divided by cost incurred-- what's interesting, usually we present this the other way. We usually do dollar per ton mile. But it's the same thing. You can think of it orders processed versus number of labor hours it took to process the orders, number of pallets unloaded divided by the number of hours of dock time. So all these kind of things-- what did it take to convert inputs to outputs? Finally, we get to effectiveness. Now, this is looking at the output. This is more customer focused. And this is usually presented as a ratio of the actual output compared to some standard. So it could be the number of items filled versus the number of items requested. This is a fill rate. Number of shipments on time versus number shipments that were sent-- now, this is an interesting point. We'll talk more about this, about what do we mean by on time. And so a lot of these things are to a standard. You notice we didn't do anything to a standard for these. These were actually actual to actual, the capacity that I had. Here for the output, I'm comparing what I actually did to some standard or quality level. So at the end of the day, if you take this process view of supply chains, converting inputs to outputs, there are three ways I can measure it-- how well am I utilizing my assets, how efficient am I in converting inputs to outputs, and the effectiveness. How well am I producing the outputs? What's my effectiveness or the quality? So these are the three metrics that we're going to focus on, but now we're going to turn and look at the different tradeoffs between the different metrics.
