Week 10, Lesson 2 · Video 6: Metric Criteria and Trade-offs

Now I want to focus in on the criteria. What makes one metric better than another metric? We want to see if there are trade-offs between these, and there are many ways I can measure how well a metric performs. I think there are four that we want to focus on. First, I want to see does the metric-- is it robust? Is it easy to interpret and is it interpreted similarly by all users across different companies? Is it comparable across time, location, or organization and is it repeatable? The second criteria is, is it valid? Does it accurately capture the events of the function or firm that I'm measuring? Does it control for exogenous factors? That is, things that I can't control-- that are outside of my action? Is it integrative? What this means is does it promote coordination across all the functions in the supply chain? And finally, is it useful? Is it readily understandable by a decision maker and does it provide a guide to action? Does it help me determine what to do? And so these are four criteria and any metric can be measured along these criteria for how well it achieves. And what we suggest is that no single metric-- if it does well across all these criteria, there are natural trade-offs and this is important when you're designing a metric system for your supply chain. So there's two major trade-offs. The first is being integrative and being useful. If I have a metric that captures everything across a whole supply chain end to end, it's probably not going to be that useful. In other words, that it's that action oriented. Remember, down here this was all about a guide to action. So if I have something capturing my multiple companies across a supply chain, how well it's flowing across end to end, it's not going to be that useful or give me much action in between for an individual function. Similarly, if I have a robust metric, something that is comparable across different firms and organizations, it's probably not going to capture all the nuances and details of my particular function. In other words, it won't be as valid or as accurate capturing all the details of my individual specific function. So there are natural trade-offs between being a robust metric and being valid. One, is it comparable? The other is very accurate to an individual function as well as integrative, which is something that promotes coordination across different functions and something that's individually useful or a call to action to an individual function. So these have trade-offs. So it's important to realize there is no single silver bullet metric that'll capture everything, and that's why you need a system of metrics. But let's dive a little deeper into this. Let's do some examples. Here are some common supply chain metrics and let's just pick one. Cost per ton kilometer moved. This is a traditional metric that's used all the time in the transportation function. So let's think about it. This is measuring how much it costs for me to move something a certain distance. This is exceptionally robust. Everyone uses this metric. It's something I can compare. It's a rough rule of thumb. Is it very valid? No, because it really depends on the commodity that I'm moving. I'm not going to compare coal-- I mean an energy company that's shipping coal compared to one that's shipping light bulbs. It's going to be very different, but still it's comparable across organizations. Similarly, it's relatively useful for me because it tells me as a transportation function whether I'm paying too much, too little. It's a guide to action. I can change that. Is it integrative? No, It doesn't really integrate anything. It's really just for this one function. So in this case, this metric is very robust and it's useful for the individual function, but it's not very integrative. It's not helping me integrate or coordinate across those functions, and it's not very valid or useful. Let's do another one. Let's look at cash to cash cycle time. So naturally, this is very integrative, because this is capturing-- well, maybe not the product design, but to here, all the way through. What is my cash to cash from when I invest until I get paid back? It's exceptionally integrative. How useful is it to me individually for my, say, material handling function? Not so much. As it gets wider out and broader, it's more useful to someone higher up than me. It is not as useful. It doesn't give me a direct action if I'm a function within that control. Same thing for robustness. It's very robust. It's a good metric to compare companies, but you lose some validity there because it doesn't capture the details. Different companies, different industries will have very different times here, and they will behave differently. So yes, you can compare, but when you get down to the details, it will be a little bit different by industry. All right, let me do one more. Here, let me just clean this up just a tad. All right, I think I wanted to do on-time delivery. So if I look at on-time, what is that telling me? Well, it's really a customer service transportation thing. So is this something that's robust? Not really because as we'll see, the definitions of on time differ between each company, between divisions, between customers, sometimes. But it can be considered quite valid, and it can be quite useful. It's not very integrative because it's really only capturing that last leg. It's depending on whether it's a make to order, make to stock system. We'll see how far it goes up, and as we'll also see in a second, it really depends on how you're defining on-time and that's another tricky thing about these metrics, is that how you define them can differ a lot between companies. So let's focus on on-time a little more, and this is something that's used by all companies. All shippers who are shipping something to a company-- to a customer, rather, have some kind of metric in on-time time delivery, but it seldom means the same thing if you talk to one company versus another. Some people will have delivery within the same week, within the same day, or within hours. It can be within a time window. The delivery must be between this two hours between noon and 2:00 or midnight and 2:00 AM, or it could be a deliver no later than 5:00 PM on Thursday. So the target will differ between companies. It can also be different whether it's a pickup or delivery or drop-off. Am I measuring on-time delivery or on-time pickup? And the most important thing is you don't know whether this was the initial request that the customer gave. Do they want to be delivered by Saturday or is it what you finally agreed to? Oh, we can't do it by Saturday but how about next Wednesday? The negotiated, because a lot of times you look at companies and they measure their on-time performance, it's really their final agreed to time not what the customer initially wanted. So all that I'm trying to get across here with these different criteria for the metrics is two things. One is there is no silver bullet. There's no single metric that captures all aspects of a supply chain. Two, there are trade-offs between individual metrics, and as a metric is more robust, it becomes less valid. As it's more integrative, it becomes less useful to the individual functions. And finally, the definitions of the metrics. You need to be very careful over understanding exactly what it means by the definitions, and I use the example of on-time delivery because every company pretty much uses a different definition of what on-time is.
