Week 10, Lesson 2 · Video 7: Balanced Supply Chain Metrics

Now let's talk about how these individual metrics can be put together and what they tell you about the organization or the supply chain that you're trying to measure. So we talked about the three ways you can measure the performance of a process. I can measure how well it's using its inputs with asset utilization. You can think of facility utilization inventory turns, because inventory is an asset that you're using. Cash to cash cycle time-- these are all metrics of how well I'm utilizing my assets. I can think of productivity or efficiency to common metrics or labor productivity, how many products are being produced per man hour. Supply chain costs, total landed cost per unit-- these are all efficiency or productivity metrics. And both of these are related to financial statements-- the income statement and the balance sheet. At the other end is what we call the effectiveness or the customer response. While both efficiency and asset utilization are internal-facing, this is now customer-facing. And so what we're going to do is compare the actual outputs to some standard. I'm going to look at perfect order fulfillment, for example. What is a perfect order? A perfect order is one that was received by the customer in the exact quantity, the exact state, the location, the timing-- everything about it was perfect to what they expected. If anything is wrong with it-- whether it's the fill rate is not correct, or the timing was delayed or is late, then it is not perfect. So my metric would be the percent of total orders that were perfect. So what I'm doing is I'm comparing the actual output to a standard. Same thing with quality, new product time to market-- you can think of item fill rate, all these kind of customer-facing metrics here. So what I've got are these three corners of the triangle. And I can take a company's top 10 metrics, and I can classify them and map where they are, and that tells me a lot about that company. So let's go through this. So here I've got that same triangle, and I've got my customer responsiveness, or my effectiveness on the lower right corner. The top corner is productivity or efficiency. The bottom left corner is my asset utilization. So if most of my matrix fall into this lower triangle, this lower right triangle, then these tend to be companies that are more high margin, short lifecycle. They're really concerned about that response. They want to really make sure they don't miss that quality-- so pharma, fashion apparel, media and entertainment, they will fall into here. Now, this is not to say that they don't care about being efficient or utilizing their assets, but it's dominated by being more effective with their customer response. Another area would be if a company's most performance matrix fall up here in this top triangle. These would tend to be lower margin or more mature products-- food and beverage, basic goods, retail, industrial supplies-- where they're all concerned about driving the cost out of their supply chain, highly efficient supply chains. Finally, if you have a company or a supply chain where a lot of their metrics are down here in the lower left triangle, then these tend to be more capital intensive industries. They're trying to utilize their very expensive assets. Think of paper manufacturers, these large mills, or steel manufacturers. They have millions and millions of dollars embedded into their assets, so they're trying to utilize them as much as possible. So a nice thing to do sometimes is take the top 10 metrics that are being followed in a company and map them. See where they fall. And it tells you something-- because if the company thinks that they're a customer-responsive company and all their metrics are for cost efficiency or asset utilization, then you've got a mismatch. So let me show you one last thing here. This is a scorecard from Goodyear circa mid to late 1990s. And I just wanted to go through this a little bit, because I like it in that it has a couple things here. First, it's balanced. It has focus metrics under customer, metrics under human resources, or their own workforce, under asset management as well as process management. So if I draw my little triangle, I've got my Customer Focus, I've got my Process Management, which is all productivity, and I've got my Asset Management. Now, they added this other dimension, this Human Resources, because they're focused in on safety, attendance, and some other things about their particular industry for their workforce. But if you look at the metrics on the customer focus, it's all about satisfaction-- fill rate, forecast accuracy. For process management, it's all about productivity-- cost that it takes to actually do the work. So this distribution cost per CWT, that's per hundredweight, per 100 pounds. And they do the same thing for transportation cost. Very common in this industry. In Asset Management, again, they're looking at how well their assets are being utilized. So what it's showing is they've got a series of metrics in all three of the corners, and it's showing a little bit of a balance.
