OK. What are the key takeaways from this short lesson? Well, there are a couple things. We talked about organization. And pretty much it comes down to, in my opinion, whether you centralize or decentralized some of your activities and what decisions do you make. And you tend to want to centralize those decisions that are strategic, longer term, and have greater applicability across the larger organization-- procurement, network design, those types of things. As I get down closer to the customer, I probably want to make those decisions to be more decentralized, made in each region specific to that customer's needs and requirements, the cultures, and the environment that's down there. We also talked a little bit about matrix organizations. In more and more companies, supply chain logistics are a shared service for the different business units in the regions. And that requires a lot of soft skills to understand how the business unit, how the CEO or the president of the business unit, interacts with the logistics or the supply chain services. So this touch point between those is where you need to come up with a shared-services type agreement or a contract or a set of rules for what that team does because their matrix organized. In other words, they report to the logistics as well as to that individual business unit. And the challenge is to make sure that you can do things that support the business unit but also the company as a whole. And if you look at all the other business units that I have, that's what makes the logistics as a shared services so interesting and quite a challenge. We looked very quickly at process views. And we'll look more at process analysis in SC3x. But the point I want to make is that all supply chains are processes and that they're converting inputs to outputs, and that the specific design of each process really is a function of the industry, the strategy, the approach that you want to take. We spent a little more time on performance metrics. And I want to make sure that you understand that this follows the process view. In other words, if I have a process that converts inputs into outputs, then I can only measure it three ways. How well am I utilizing the inputs? How effective are my outputs? And how efficient am I in converting my inputs to my outputs? So if you believe in the process view, then these three ways of measuring the performance of that process fall right out. Now, you can use many different metrics for each of these areas. And there's thousands of them out there that different companies use. But I think it's important to understand that there are trade offs with them. There is no silver bullet metric that covers all three of these aspects. If you have a metric that's very robust and compatible, then it's probably not can be as valid or accurate for me to use individually for my function. If I have a metric this very integrative and covers across the entire supply chain, like cash-to-cash cycle time, then it's probably not very useful to an individual function. So these are just trade offs between the individual metrics. Now, you want to bring these metrics together so they balance each other. And you want to make sure you have this balanced scorecard approach. That's why you need to have multiple metrics in the way that you are measuring your performance, not just a single metric. And what we looked at there is we said, OK, if I have this triangle where I've got my asset utilization. I've got my customer response. And then I've got my productivity or efficiency. Then we want to make sure I'm not all lopsided into one. Now, as an industry, industries will tend to focus in one of the lower triangles or upper triangles. But generally, you want to make sure you're more balanced. All right. That's all I wanted to talk about for organizations, processes, and metrics. I hope you enjoyed the discussion. I know what I did. And at this pretty much wraps up CS2x. And so I hope you enjoyed the entire discussion of designing supply chains for the physical flow, the financial flow, the information flow, as well as the organization, metrics, and processes themselves.
