Week 3, Lesson 1 · Video 5

So far we've ignored the whole problem of how do you start a forecast, how do you initialize the parameters you're going to use, the level, the trend, the seasonality. Let's dive into that now. And so the big take-away or the big point for initialization, there's no single best method. There are many good ones. And, as the simpler, the exponential smoothing model, the easier the procedure is, the most complicated one is the Holt-Winters that we'll talk about in a few minutes. One other thing to think about is the data that you use. You need three separate data sets to really set up one of these models. The first one you're going to use to initialize the data, to come up with your initial estimates of level, trend, and seasonality, if you're using all three. Then you're going to need another set of data to train it. This is when you introduce the smoothing factors. You want to determine, should I use an alpha of 0.1, a 0.15, a beta of 0.001, 0.05, whatever. You want to figure that out during the training set of data. And then, after that, you want to test it. You want to see how well it does on a new set of data. So this requires a lot and, in many cases, you won't have all of this data, but you should try. It's a dangerous thing to initialize, train, and test on the exact same data set, because you'll probably overfit the model and you will end up with a very high alpha, a very high beta, because it's trying to match exactly what's happening. So we'll talk more about this in our next set of lectures, but let's go through and say, how do you initialize? Let's start with the simplest model. Simple exponential smoothing model, all I've got is a level parameter, an a. So how do I find this count? Well, I look back and I find a bunch of the most recent periods, 5, 10, whatever I have, and just take the average, average demand, done. So that's the easy one. Holt Model. Now we've got both a level and they've got a trend, so we need to find those initial estimates. So this is actually pretty easy, too. We're going to find this by using ordinary least squares regression, which we're not going to talk about in this video, we're going to talk about next week in detail. But, essentially, it's a way to find the best linear equation to fit a data set. And it's ordinary least squares minimizes the sum of the squares, and we'll talk much more about this. But, essentially, what you've got is a regression equation, where your demand, the actual demand that happened, you're going to fit this equation, beta 0, which is the intercept, plus beta 1, which is the slope, times t. So you're going to end up with estimates of your a and your b. Now we'll talk about this in depth on the next week, but what we're doing is giving equal weight to each observation in that data set. But we'll talk more about this. So this is regression. So for the Holt model, when all you have, all you need to estimate is a level and a trend, ordinary least squares regression is the fastest way to do that. Now this gets a little more complicated. We introduce seasonality models, so there's different ways to do this. The big overarching need, though, is more data. You have to have at least, obviously, two seasons worth, but it's best to have four or more. You want as many as you can have, but then you can see you're getting into a trade-off. As I get more data going further back in my history, it's probably less relevant to today. But you want to be able to get multiple data points for each point in your seasonality. So let's look at the first one, double exponential smoothing. And this one makes-- this one's a little easier than the Holt-Winter one that we're going to talk about in a second-- so we're going to have to estimate two parameters, the level and the seasonality indices for each of the seasonalities. So if I have the four periods here of the sandwich shop for bagels, the daily bagel demand, whereas this is a Monday, this is a Monday, this is a Monday. You see, it goes every five days. You see the seasonality. So if I have this history, how would I figure this out? Well, I want to find the average demand for each day, in this case, each common season period. So I find the average demand on Mondays, the average demand on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, et cetera. Then I find the average demand for all the periods. I've got that. And then I simply divide, 60 divided by 121 is 0.5. 90 divided by 121 is 0.75. So I'm finding what a Monday's sales are as a fraction of the average. And this will naturally have to sum up to p, in this case, 5, and it will average to 1. So this is pretty easy. We just find the average each day or each period and then divide that by the average over the whole length of that historical initialization data set. But here comes the tough one, Holt-Winter. So there are many methods out there. We're going to talk one that's called the P-centered moving average method. And what we're going to do is I'll talk it through the exact same example. We're going to first find the seasonality indices, because now what we've got for Holt-Winter, remember, I've got a level, a trend, and seasonality. So first thing I do. I have the data over here, and you see I've got four weeks of data. Every time period is listed on each row, the day of the week, actual demand is listed here. And then what I'm doing is I'm finding a moving average of 5. Why 5? Because that's p. And so I find this moving average and I have this 128.3 is the moving average of these five time periods. So I centered it, that's where the center comes from. So then the next one I do-- let me just erase that-- 129.4 is equal to the moving average of these five and so forth. So, essentially, I'm doing a moving average and then shifting it up to be the first one to be centered in that period. Now if I have an even number of periods in the seasonality, it gets a little more complicated. You want to do one on one end and then the other end and average it, but this is a little easier. So I get that moving average. So, essentially, what I'm saying is that, on Wednesday-- let's look at one-- time period 82, actual demand was 163, the moving average around that, say it was 128.3. So if I want to find my seasonality, all I want to do is divide my actual demand by that estimate. When this is the estimate of the level. And so what I'm doing, I'm de-levelling it. And so I'm saying, well, you know what? That says Wednesday has about 27% more than the average day, or 1.273. Same thing with, let's pick another day. Let's pick, well, the next day, Thursday, time period 83. 129 was the actual. If I did a five-day moving average around that, where this is the centered five-day, so it goes two days before, two days after, and that day, it's almost even. So that's kind of like an average day. So I do that for each of those five periods and I end up with this center point moving average column, that's what's in this column. And then what am I going to do? Well, what I want to do, this center point average is this line, by the way, on the chart, I'll just highlight it. So that's what I'm doing, because I'm trying to de-seasonalize things. So I ended up with this estimate of the F1's, where I just divide the actual divided by that center point average. And what do I get for that? Well, each one of these. So now I go through, and I found it for each period, now I'm just going to sum them up. Let me sum up all the Mondays, 0.492, 0.518, 0.495. I take the average of that and I'll get 0.501. I do the same thing for Tuesdays, what's a Tuesday, 0.735, 0.736, 0.752, et cetera. And so I do that for each of the separate days. So once I get them, chances are, it would be an exceptionally rare thing for them to sum up to p. They don't in this case, they sum up to 4.952. I'm a little low. So what am I going to do? I'm going to normalize them, just like I did in the previous video. And I'm going to increase them all a little bit to cover that, what is it, 0.048 gap, to get it to 5. So each one of these is normalized. You'll see they each go up by about, what is it, about 5 units each? So it depends. And then it sums up at the end of the day to 5. All right. So that's the first step, first two steps. The next thing we want to do is estimate the initial level and trend values, and so from here, what I want to do, what I've done already-- and this chart still shows the week, the time period, the day of the week, the actual demand. And then this is the normalized indices that we just calculated. We just calculate that, you see they repeat each week. And then, what I want to find is a de-seasonalized demand. And all I'm doing is taking the actual demand in each period and dividing it by my seasonality index that I just calculated. And so what I'm finding is this line, which is de-seasonalized line, I took seasonality out of it to try to find the level and the trend. So what I'm going to do to find that now? Well, I've got these data sets, this data, and I'm trying to find an a-- well, actually, I'm going to be doing it from time period 100 forward-- so I want to find an a hat zero, which is my intercept, essentially, at 100. And I want to find what the slope is of b hat zero. So how do I do that? Well, we're going to use ordinary least squares regression, just like we did in the previous Holt model, where it's just level and trend. And so we'll talk about the details how do that next week, but you end up with this equation, that the intercept at time zero is negative 216.9, and the slope is 4.192 bagels per day. So I'm starting at time period t, t equals 100. So I'm going forward from there. So my initial estimate for the level is going to be-- that's this equation, this equation we just calculated-- and I'm going to multiply the slope times 100, minus 216.9 gives me 202. Then for the slope, I just, I already know what that is. That comes out of the equation, 4.192, call it 4.2. So I've got my a hat. This is my b hat, b hat zero. And down here are all my estimates for the indices, the seasonality indices that we've already done. So, it took a long while to get to it, but hopefully you saw the mechanics of it, and all we're doing is getting a first best estimate for what these parameters are.
