Week 7, Lesson 2 · Video 1

Welcome back. In this lesson, we're going to talk about single period inventory models. These are also known as the news vendor problem, or that newsboy or newsgirl problem. And while they're the simplest of the inventory problems with stochastic demand, they're actually probably the most critical. These models are at the heart of all inventory models. They illustrate the trade-offs between having too much, and too little, inventory. So they're kind of key to almost any other inventory model that you're going to study. So let's get started. And let's start with our assumptions. Now, in our last lesson, we talked about stochastic demand and what that means. And so essentially, our demand is now variable, random, and continuous. And we also talked, because of that, you're going to have excess demand. Right, I can be short and lose my orders, or there might be sent back orders. So you have to take care of that. But the big distinction, in this lesson versus the last one, is that we're going to look at a single period planning horizon. So it's all within one period. And I'll explain what that means in a second. So here's the agenda for this lesson. We're going to do two things. We're going to start with finding the optimal order quantity, which we call Q star, and then we're also going to look at how to find the profitability. So both of these things are very important. In fact, to find the profitability, the optimal profitability, you need to find the optimal order quantity. So for the order quantity, we're going to look at multiple approaches, data tables, marginal analysis. And we're going to solve a single problem throughout this whole lesson. That's the NFL replica Jersey problem. Now, for profitability, we're going to use some of our old friends from the last lesson, and that's how to find expected units sold, and expected units short. Because we showed how to do those for different distributions, we're going to do the same thing here, and we're going to use things called loss functions. And we talked a little bit about what these were last lesson, but we're going to expand on that a lot more. And again, we'll apply these to the NFL replica Jersey problem. So let's talk about the problem itself. Is a real problem, and a thesis that we adapted this from is listed on the slide below. And the situation was, in 2002, Reebok had the sole rights to sell replica NFL football jerseys. NFL is the National Football League, and that's American football. So that's where you wear pads, and you throw the football up here, that Tom Brady is doing. And so they have the rights to sell these to fans. Now, when someone bought a Jersey, they'd buy a specific player's Jersey. So if you bought a Tom Brady Jersey, you'd get number 12 with Brady written on the back. And the peak sale period for this is about eight weeks. Now, the lead time, from contract manufacturer to delivery, is about 12 to 16 weeks. So the problem is, you would have to place your order quantity way in advance of the season. Because the problem that they had is that they didn't know how many jerseys for each player to order. Interestingly, when this problem first came to us, they thought it was a forecasting problem. They thought, can we better forecast the number of jerseys that are sold? And so, after some analysis, it became obvious that the team that did the best throughout the season would sell the most jerseys. And the player who did the best on the team that did the best, right, would sell even more jerseys. But then you think about it, if you could predict and forecast very accurately, which team would win the Super Bowl, and which player would have a great season, then you probably wouldn't be selling replica jerseys. You'd be betting in Las Vegas. So the idea of being able to predict that accurately, to forecast that, is kind of a lost cause. And so what this approach is looking at is finding a better way to manage the risks of having too much, or too little, of a specific player's Jersey to sell. So what are some of the facts? Well, you need some data, and here's our data that we're going to use throughout this lesson. The unit cost is about $10.90 a Jersey, and they can sell them for about $24 a Jersey. So you see, there's a fairly hefty margin there. The demand for jerseys, that's a random variable, that x, and it's normally distributed with a mean of 32,000, and a standard deviation of 11. So the problem is, we want to find the order quantity, and we call that q star and we want to find the q star that maximizes profit. And profit is this function we have listed here, and there's two main parts to it. Let me highlight those. The second one is cq, that's the cost. c is the cost per Jersey, q is the number that you order. So your costs are simply going to be the product of those. Now, what's my revenue? My revenue is going to be what I can sell it for, that p, but also how many will I be able to sell? Think back to the last lesson, and there's really two answers here. It's the minimum of two things: whatever the demand is, if I'm selling less than q. And if demand is greater than q, I can only sell q, right, because that's all that I have. So we'll spend a lot of time looking at this function, because that's what makes it a little tricky. But this is just a profit function. But this is also a little bit different from what we did in EOQ. For economic order quantity, we're looking to minimize cost. And we'll do that in other inventory models. But for the news vendor problem, we're looking at maximizing profit. OK, what are we going to do next? Well, in the next segment, we're going to start diving in to how to find that best policy, how to solve that q. And we're going to look into two methods. One is using a data table, and the other using marginal analysis. All right, let's get started.
