Week 8, Lesson 1 · Video 8

OK, let's dive into Cost per Item Short. We looked at this before. This is the cost for each item, or each unit of inventory that I'm short. And we call this c_s, or the Cost of Shortage. So let's take a look and see how this affects the Total Cost. So remember our Total Cost equation, same four terms that we've had before, and let's see what's changed. Just like in the previous one for cost of a Stockout Order, the Purchase Price does not change. The Ordering Cost does not change. For the Inventory Holding Costs, we've added in this Safety Stock. And then, we have Stockout Cost, and it's going to be slightly different term than what we had before. So let's look at this. It consists of three elements-- the first is c_s, which we've seen before. It's the Cost per Item Stocked out. Remember, that's going to be dollars per each item or unit times the time period or year. The second term is these two terms here, sigma_DL times G(k). So this is essentially the Expected Unit Short. This should look very familiar from our Newsvendor problems. And then the last term is simply the number of Replenishment Cycles we expect to have over this whole length of time-- over the course of the year, let's say. So combined, this Cost per Item Stocked out, times Expected Unit Short or Replenishment Cycle, times the number of Replenishment Cycles, gives me the expected Stockout Cost over the course of a year. So what we want to do? We want to find the costs that are relevant. And it's the same as before. The only Relevant Costs are going to be the Safety Stock, and this Stockout Cost because they're the only ones with the ks. How do I solve? I'm going to take a first order conditions, set it equal to 0. It's a very ugly derivation, so let me just give you the punchline-- you end up with this condition: That the k is optimal for the minimum Total Relevant Cost, IF the probability of the demand x greater than k is equal to this quantity, which is the Q-- the amount that you ordered-- times the Cost of the Excess, divided by the annual demand D, times Cost of Shortage. Notice the ratio, Cost of Excess over Cost of Shortage, makes sense that this would help determine how much I would want to stock, because, again, it's just a trade off between having too much and having too little. So let's apply this rule. So the decision rule, when I have c_s costs, remember that's the Cost per Item Short, first I have to make sure that this term Q, times the Cost of the Excess over the annual demand, times the Cost of Shortages lesson equal to 1. And if it is, then I can determine that my probability of stockout is going to be equal to this. Otherwise, I set my k as low as management allows. So this is like the last time, when we did Cost of Stockout Events, in that you have a condition. Why do we have this first condition? Well, this quantity is going to be a probability. Your probability can't be greater than 1 or less than 0. So if it is greater than 1, what are we saying? We're saying that the probability that your demand is going to exceed what you have is greater than 100%-- it's definitely going to happen. So therefore, that means that it's saying that the Cost of the Stockout per each Item Short is so low that it doesn't matter what you do. So, in that case, you'd set one. The management would set a k level, or a Service Level, and you'd think of maybe looking at the Item Fill Rate and look at something comparable there. Similarly to how you looked at Cycle Service Level when we looked at the Costs for Stockout Event. OK. But let's do this in the same example that we had before. You've got the same situation, the only thing that's different here is that now we're assuming that we know the Cost of a Stockout item, and it's $45 per unit per year. And notice that that's roughly three times what the Cost of Excess is, which is 100 times 0.15 or $15. So essentially, we're saying Cost of Stockout is three times the Cost of Holding Inventory for the same period of time. OK, so what is our (s,Q) Policy here? Again, our demand, our expected Demand Over Lead Time, and our standard deviation Demand over Lead Time doesn't change. The metrics you use for performance do not affect the underlying demand. We want to check our decision rule. I'm just plugging in the numbers in here for Q of 5,200 times my Cost of Excess-- remember that's just the c times the h, 100 times 0.15 or 15, divided by the annual demand that's multiplied by that Cost of Shortage-- that $45 per unit per year that we just did. This gives me a number of 0.02795. That is less than 1 and greater than 0, so I'm good to go. So, now I want to find the k. I'm finding the k, such that the probability that x is greater than that is equal to 0.02795. So therefore, 1 minus that will give me that probability that x is less than that k. So the probability that the demand is less than k, right, this is telling me the left hand side, or essentially, the Cycle Service Level is 0.97205. What k gives me that? Looking up on the tables or using a spreadsheet, k is 1.91. Once I've got my k, I'm off to the races. I can find my Reorder Point. It's simply expected Demand Over Lead Time, times that k, times the standard deviation of Demand Over Lead Time. And this gives me 5,382 units, so my policy becomes order Q*-- 5,200 units-- when the Inventory Position is less or equal to 5,382 units.
