Week 4, Lesson 3 · Video 4

So let's dive into the first type of quantity discount, the All Units discount. So what we're looking at here is a case where-- I've got really two cases here. One is, I order a quantity that's below this break point, Q1. So if I order on this side of it, I'm going to be paying c0. Or I order above that, and I'm going to be ordering at a cost of c1 / item. And so let me just clean this up. The two cases are obviously if I'm below, I'm ordering at c0. And if I'm above, I'm ordering at c1, where c1 is discounted. And I just did it by this product of this d1, this discount. So if it's a 10% discount, if d1 = 0.1, then c1 = 90%, or 0.9 * c0. So when we're going to look at this, what happens is the total relevant cost changes. This is the first time-- this is why we're doing this extension-- because you always want to think about what is relevant. And in this case, the Quantity is now relevant because it changes how much I pay per item. Before, it didn't matter and we didn't need to include it. Now it does. And so when we look at this and we think about it, there's really only going to be three places or three quantities where we're probably going to order. One is, the original cost curve, and that's this black line-- we could end up doing its EOQ. Or this blue line, which is with the discount price, and we're going to order that, if it's EOQ is over here, to the right of that break point. Or there might be a case where this doesn't occur there and we want to order at this amount, which is just enough to get that breakpoint, that discounted price. So really those are the three spots that we want to look at, because if you think about it, typically, this Q* for the original price, this black line, that's always going to be less than Q1. What if it's greater than that? Well, if it's greater than that, then what they're telling you is "I know you already buy this amount, and it's cheaper for you to buy this amount"-- but you're buying that amount anyway. So it doesn't make sense. If you're already buying above that discount level, then why would they give you a discount for doing what you're already doing? So let's go in and see how we can find out where you should buy, what your quantity should be, with this given All Units discount. So the procedure is pretty straightforward. Let's just go through it with an example. I've got my annual demand here. I've got my holding cost at 25%. My cost / transaction is $500. My c0 is $50 / item. And the discount for c1 is-- I take 15% off, so c1 is going to simply be 50 * 0.15. And that comes out to be $42.50. Right? So I'm saving 15% if I order above 800 units. So let's go through it. First step, find the optimal quantity with the original price, and the optimal quantity, the EOQ, with the new price. And this is just straight EOQ. You should be able to do this in your sleep now. It's going to be = sqrt ( 2 * c_t * D / ch), where c is the relevant price and h is that 25% holding rate. So you should get these numbers. If you don't, check your math. Then you want to go to step two. You say OK, does the quantity discount-- is it greater than the breakpoint? Does it qualify? Does this quantity, which I've figured out with the new price, comes out to be 434-- makes sense if it costs less per item, I'm going to order more, because the inventory holding cost goes down, because it don't doesn't cost as much per unit-- but unfortunately, it doesn't pass my minimum quantity there. I've got to do over 800 to get that discount. So go to step three. Now for step three what I'm doing is I'm saying OK, let's look at what the original total relevant cost is without the discount-- just normal every day-- and compare that to what the total relevant cost would be if I buy at the break point. So if I buy at 800 units-- because if I buy at 800 units, what does that mean? I get that discounted price. So I just go right in. We've already calculated this before. And then I'm just going to do the same thing. I just do it long ways here. So this is the new c-- this is c1 times D. And I've got (c_t * D) / Q1. This is Q1, the quantity that I have to cross. And then times, again, ch, 42.5, the new c1*h over my average inventory, 800/2. So that comes out to be-- if you do the math, $90,000. And so if I look at these two, obviously this is less than this. So they are different from each other, so I'm going to take the discount. I'm going to order 800 units. So my order quantity with this All Units discount will be 800 units. And I know I'm going to save-- just comparing these two-- about $14,500 / year.
