Week 8 · Recitation · Video 2

OK, so, in this session, we will also have a problem that will find in the problem set for this week. So, as before, I encourage you all to look at that problem, try to solve it, before we watch this video. OK, if you read the problem, feel like you understand it, skip ahead to next video. If you want to hear me read the question to you and highlight some important parameters, or some important information in this problem, please stay tuned, OK. Here we go. You're working with the manufacturer to help them install an enterprise resource planning system, or an ERP system. The ERP will capture all transactions and will also determine when to place orders for replenishments. The system will determine how much to order each day for different SKUs. Consider this a continuous SQ system. You want to set the parameters for a few test items before updating the parameters for all 12,000 SKUs in the system. One of your test items is SKU number XC908. It has a cost of $155.00 for item. The annual demand appears to be relatively stable, at 650 items per month. The forecast error, or the root mean square error, for the XC908 is 120 items per month. The company policy is to assume that this error is normally distributed around a mean. The lead time for replenisment is one week. For simplicity, assume that there are four weeks in a month, 12 months in a year, and 48 weeks per year. The company uses a holding rate of $0.15 for every dollar in a year. The cost to place the order has been estimated to be $750.00 per order. You need to order in multiples of 10, since each case holds 10 items. Right, so, we're looking at a longer horizon in here. We have a lot of SKUs, and we want to find a good way of setting up our system for those SKUs. And we're going to do that by looking at a few test items. In particular, we're going to look at SKU number XC908. Now, we saw up here in the first paragraph, that they're planning to use a continuous review system. So it's going to be reviewed continuously, not just a certain points in time, but continuously. And as soon as it reaches some S, we're going to order an amount, Q. So the parameters that we use in inventory policy, is the quantity that we order number in period Q. And the timing is determined by the reorder point, S. But with that, we're going to reach-- as our inventory depletes over time. So, on top of that, we have some information about what the demand looks like. We know the demand is fairly stable, and it's more or less based on information that we have here. It's kind of-- it seems to follow a normal distribution. So those are two critical points information want to take with us. And then, of course. You want to remember what the different costs are over here. Once we have all that under control, I think we're ready to tackle the actual problems. So let's go.
