Week 4 · Welcome to Week 4

Welcome to week 4 of SC1X Supply Chain Fundamentals. Now we're going to turn from doing forecasting, which we spent the previous three weeks on, and we're going focus in on inventory. So you'll see that the primary driver for the way that you manage inventory for the most part, it's a function of what you assume your demand is. If demand is very sporadic, if it's got a lot of randomness, if it's steady state. Each of these assumptions will dictate the type tool or type of method that you manage your inventory with. So let's start with a simple case. Let's assume that I've got demand-- this is demand for my product, single item-- is known as deterministic and it's constant. So it's constant demand. So what does this mean? This means I'm going to place orders at a certain period of time. And I'm going to order a certain amount. And I'm going to call that order quantity Q. And we'll find out that's the thing we're really looking for. What is the best Q to use? And you're going to find out that I'm going to have to order this Q periodically. And since it's a uniform deterministic demand, these periods will be the same. Makes sense because it's going to be happening over and over again. Now I place an order and then what happens? Well, at some point I will receive that same amount. And I will receive the same amount Q. And so let me just draw those in. And this is the product that I'm receiving. And you'll notice that they aren't-- let me just do this one. If I draw this line down, it's not happening at the same time. That's because we live in the real world. And that's called your lead time, L. So I have some lead time between when I place the order and then when the product shows up. And we'll play with this a lot. This is transportation, this is the amount of time it takes to actually make the product, to do the order of the product. All those different things go into that L. But the end result here is I can see how this affects my inventory. So what I have down here in this lower chart is what my inventory is going to look like. And so what will this look like? Well, I'm going to receive this order, so my inventory, assuming I'm at 0 here is going to go up. And then what's going to happen? My demand is going to go down. And then I'm going to receive a new order, up. And then it's going to go down. And it's going to go back up again and continue. And you can actually see that this would actually go back this way as well. This is known as the sawtooth diagram. This is what inventory tends to look like. Now if this demand is a little more random, then this won't be a straight line. But you can think of it. You have a bunch of stuff there, it gets sold, and then you get a bunch of stuff in. So this sawtooth diagram is key and core to all inventory models. Now you might say well, when I place my order though, I might have already placed money out. So we want to actually compare between what I have on hand and what I drew down there is actually what's known as the inventory on hand. That's what I physically have sitting there versus what my inventory position is. So what that is when I place this order-- if I follow this down-- I've now placed an order for a certain amount. And while it's not sitting at my location, I've already placed the order for it. I might have put money out for it. It's in transit. And so I can actually look at again, here, I placed this order. Up a little bit, and so this inventory, it isn't at my location, it's what's known as being in transit. And depending on the terms, you might own it and already pay for it, or it might be something you receive at the end. But it's something you need to be aware of because then this line is what's known as your inventory position. It's not just what you have on hand, it's what you have on hand plus what you have on order. And that becomes very important when we develop our inventory models. So we want to try to figure out what is the best Q that minimizes my total cost. Because that's what we're trying to do here, minimize our total cost of ownership. So we're going to go back and start developing that total cost equation I talked about earlier. And it's going to consist of, for this purpose, three terms, my purchasing cost, what does it cost to actually buy the stuff, plus what is the cost of actually placing an order, plus what's the cost of holding it, of having the inventory there. Three terms. And so because we're a quantitative course, we're going to turn this into an equation. What do I need to do for that? Well, I need to define some terms. We need to define our demand. And we're going to use the letter D. Where does this demand come from? It comes from your forecast. That's how forecasting ties in inventory management. And we'll see later on when we loosen the assumption of deterministic demand, how this influences my variability of demand. And that influences my safety stock and other things. But for right now, forecasting is just determining that annual demand. I need to know what my order quantity is going to be. That's when I'm going to solve for. I'd have a purchase cost, what I'm paying to get the product. The order cost, this is what it costs me to place an order. Think of this as transportation, the cost of using the system. Whatever-- all of those costs to place an order, irregardless of the size of the order. And then I've got the holding cost. How much does it cost to keep inventory sitting here? Because if I have inventory here, remember, it's costing me something. I paid money for that. So that money is just sitting there. You could think of inventory as a stack of dollar bills, a stack of money, sitting there. If I have inventory sitting there, that's money that's tied up. That capital that's tied up. So I have these terms. How do I come up with an equation here? We'll go into detail, but basically you can think of it if I purchase something, it's going to cost me C, purchase cost for every item that I use that year for my demand. My ordering cost is going to be that C sub t every time I place an order. How many times will I order? Well, that's going to be my annual demand divided by the units that I order each time. So this will tell me the number of times that I order. And don't worry if you don't get this the first time. We'll go over this in detail in the lectures. I just wanted to set the stage for you. Then I've holding cost. That's going to be C sub e, that holding cost that's dollar per dollar per time. And what will that be? Well, this is what kind of confuses students the first time. It confused me the first time. It's Q over 2. Why is it Q over 2? Because when I order, remember this amount, this level is Q. And so you can think of the average inventory that I have on hand is going to be this area under these triangles. And so what is that? Q over 2. And so that's the average inventory. So I've got these three cost components to give me my total cost. And we'll find out very quickly that purchase cost doesn't affect my decision of how much to order. It doesn't have a Q in it. And we'll talk more about that in the lesson, but at the end of the day, we have two major costs that are competing, the ordering cost and the holding cost. And what we can do is chart these two costs to show how the trade-offs are made. So let's go with a holding cost, and that looks something like this. It's a straight line. This is my holding cost. And that if I increase my Q, I'm going to have higher holding costs. Because if I order a lot, more of it will sit around longer. So my total costs will increase, my holding costs will increase as my Q gets bigger. Now for my ordering costs, it's just the opposite. If I order very small quantities, I'm going to be ordering a lot of time, so that cost will go up. As my Q gets bigger, than my ordering cost gets smaller. So if I look at both of these and put these together for my total cost, then what it's going to look like is something like this if I add them together. And what we're trying to find is what is the Q that minimizes this total cost equation? It looks like a convex continuous function. We know how to do that. We want this point which you'll see is actually where these two values meet. And we're going to, call that Q star. And so what is Q star? That's also known as the economic order quantity. That's the Q that you want to use to minimize your total cost of ordering and holding. And as I said before, the order size doesn't affect my total purchase cost. So it's irrelevant to this discussion. So how would I find this? Well, I can do it graphically, but we also know a better way. You can take a first order condition, take a derivative, solve for Q, and you'll find that the economic order quantity is 2 times C sub t times D over C sub e. This is your economic order equation, order quantity. And you'll be using this a lot. Every inventory system essentially relies on the EOQ to start. And all that it is is a way of making the trade-off between ordering cost and holding cost. And it's part of that total cost equation that we're developing over the course of this course. Big week this week. Three lessons. Lots of practice problems to get your arms around how to do this inventory modeling. This is the first step of the next four weeks where we'll be dealing with inventory. Have fun.
