Week 9, Lesson 1 · Video 5

So let's use the example. Let's go back to Shenzhen and we're shipping shoes to Kansas City. So the question is, how should I ship my shoes? And I've got some general information. We know most of this already. Demand. We gave a little bit of variability to it. We said it's 4.5 million shoes per year. And the standard deviation is about 540,000, or 0.54 million. That's the standard deviation. We assume it's distributed normally. Again, I have 3,000 pairs of shoes fit into one TEU. Average cost is $35. And some new information for you. $75 per pair is what I sell it for. Order per shipment cost is about $5,000 per order. I have a holding cost of 15%. And I'm going to make some simplifying assumptions. 50 weeks a year, 350 days per year. And we're going to try to come up with something eventually with a cycle service level of 95%. Now I have some transportation options, and I've winnowed this down a little bit just to make it an easy example. I've got the inland origin options. I can either go to Yantian or Hong Kong. And I show how much it cost per container. Everything is in dollars per container here. And the length of time. Then I do the port to port. I give three options. One is from Yantian to the port of Los Angeles. Another is from Hong Kong to the port of Los Angeles. And then the last one is from Hong Kong to New York. So I have these different options here. And each one, again, is $1 per container plus the length of time. Then I've got the destination port. And I don't have dollars per containers here. So that's not there. It's really just length of time. How much time does it take? Because we assume-- and this differs by carrier-- that someone else is paying for that customs. It's included in that cost. So it just takes time to get through the ports. And then the final leg here is the inland transportation. I have one option from port of LA to Kansas City by rail, by BNSF. And then I've got two options from port of New York, New Jersey. That's PANYNJ. Port of New York, New Jersey. To Kansas City. One is by rail, Norfolk Southern. And one is by the trucking company. That's GB Hunt. And so for each of these, I have a cost per container plus the length of time. And so my question is, which option provides the lowest transportation cost? So to do this, it's pretty straightforward. I want to figure some things out. What do we already? Well, I know my demand. 4.5 million shoes per year. I know my cost, $35 a pair. And again, I've got my holding cost, my "h," is 15 dollar per dollar per year, or 15%. So we can make the assumption we'd ship full containers. So how many containers would I ship? Well, I know that I can fit 3,000 pairs of shoes in a container, so I'm just going to simply divide the total annual demand, 4.5 million, by 3,000. And I get 1,500 containers per year. So now I want to find which path has the lowest transportation cost per container. And so what I want to do is build the operational network. And so here is my plant in Shenzhen. And here's Kansas City. And these are all the options that I have. All right. I can go to the port of Yantian, or I can go to the port of Hong Kong. If I go to Yantian, I'm going to go to LA. If I go to LA, then I'm going to use rail to get to Kansas City. If I go to Hong Kong, then I have two options. One is I can go then to the port of Los Angeles, or go to the port of New York, New Jersey. And if I'm at New York, New Jersey, I've got two options. One is rail. One is truck. And all I did was map the different options along with their duration. So I can compress this now into a strategic network. And this is simply again, from Shenzhen initial origin, to final destination. And there's really only four paths available here. The first one is this top one, Yantian to LA to Kansas City. That's path one. Path two is Hong Kong to LA and then to Kansas City. Path three is Hong Kong to New York and then taking the railroad to Kansas City. And then the final path is Shenzen to Hong Kong to New York, taking the truck to Kansas City. So let me clean this up a little bit. It gets very messy. So I've got four options. And I'm going to pick between these options. And what do I want to pick? I want to simply pick the lowest transportation cost. And so if I look at this, this is the cost per container for each option. So on a very simplistic basis, what would I pick? I'd pick the one with the lowest cost, which is option three. Right. If I wanted to minimize my transportation cost, it would come out to be $2,030 per container. And I'd be following the path Hong Kong to New York and then taking the railroad in. So that's option three. And it'd come out to be about 67.7 cents for each pair of shoes. Now we know that's probably not going to be the best overall solution, but if I'm looking for minimal transportation cost, that's the lowest cost per container. What we'll see in the next lecture is what does that mean when I start tying in other factors, like inventory and those other considerations.
