Week 10, Lesson 1 · Video 3

So let's put those four operations all together. This is where we left it, and we have the four operations-- loading and unloading, line haul moves at direct one to one, vehicle routing, which is the one to many or many to one, and facility sorting, which enables many to many. And what we want to do is look at what are the underlying economic drivers of each of those. And there's really three economies we want to talk about. And you're probably familiar with most of these. The first is economies of scale. And this simply says that a firm or a company, or a person's average production cost, decreases as the total volume increases. Economies of scale-- if I have more, then my per-unit cost goes down. This is a common concept. We see it in a lot of different activities. And it's always present when there's a fixed cost because I can allocate that fixed cost over more items if I have more things moving through-- economies of scale. And so the idea-- think of it-- if I'm shipping one thing versus shipping 100 things, I might have a lower per-unit cost per item, per pallet if I'm shipping more, because I can take advantage of economies of scale. Another one you might not have heard of before is called economies of scope. And the idea there is that a firm or company's average production costs for producing one product decreases if they're producing some other product as well. And so in manufacturing, you see this a lot for different SKUs on a production line. In transportation, it's a classic example. If I'm delivering a product from A to B, my cost of doing that is probably less if I also have a load going from B back to A or to somewhere else. So these are complementarity of different activities. So it's the backhaul and the forehaul. So in transportation, it's very common to think about this, because product moves in very non-uniform ways. A lot of stuff moves to a certain area, and there's not a lot coming out. So economies of scope means if I can deliver from A to B, my cost will be lower if I also have a load coming from B back to A. And that's very important when we talk about direct transportation modes or one-to-one moves. The third economy is economies of density. And we kind of hinted at this when I talked about vehicle routing. And the idea is that a firm's average cost is reduced as the density of the customers is increased. And density just simply means the number of stops or customers within a square area. So the number of points per area-- as that gets increased, Then there is less distance between the different customers. And so that means it's more dense. So you can think of this in two ways, both shipment and location density. And so location is if I have a lot of facilities really close to each other. And then you can think about shipment-- if I have a lot of shipments going into one building, let's say, one office building as opposed to having multiple buildings close to each other. But it's both forms of density. So we have economies of scale, economies of scope, and economies of density. And each of these are driven by different activities. So when I look at scale, loading and unloading, that's really driven by scale, because you have a fixed cost to get the vehicle there. And then everything additionally you add in lowers the cost of each additional item. So you have economies of scale for both loading and unloading. Line haul-- you really don't have much economies of scale. You have it within the vehicle because we have a fixed cost for loading and unloading. But generally, you don't have it if you have more truckloads that are going to a certain location. What you have a lot of in line haul is economies of scope. So that's going from point A to B. It's very helpful if I have something else coming out of B so I don't have to drive a long distance empty to get my next load. So line haul moves, one to one, have very, very, very strong economies of scope. Routing-- it's all about economies of density. The closer my location points are for my stops, then the shorter I have to drive, which means lower cost per item delivered. Sorting-- again, it's all about the scale. Sorting and loading and unloading are very related. You're touching the product a lot. The other two activities, line haul and routing-- you're not really touching the product. It's in the vehicle. It's in the conveyance, the van, the trailer. But sorting and loading-- you're touching the stuff, so really big economies of scale there. And I can map out my three transportation types one to one. They really only affect the loading, unloading in the line haul, so really strong economies of scope. One to many gets into that density, and many to many hits them all. So what it comes down to-- efficiency in transportation, whether it's freight transportation, passenger transportation-- it doesn't matter-- it all comes down to consolidation. And that can occur temporally, over time, spatially within different locations or within the vehicle itself. And that's really what's driving all of the economies of transportation.
