Week 10, Lesson 1 · Video 6

All right, in this segment, we're going to move and start talking about one-to-many problems. And I'm going to give an example of vehicle routing. So let's talk about the vehicle routing problem. It's actually a very well-established problem in both academic literature and in practice. And the idea is to find the minimum-cost tours from a single origin to multiple destinations using multiple vehicles. Who solves this problem? Boy, shippers, carriers, service companies. This is known as the last-mile delivery problem for a lot of companies, or the first-mile. So it's how you get to the line haul. And so the types of problems you see are commercial delivery. This is happening, really getting much more important for retailers with e-commerce and a lot of delivery to home. What was once given to the parcel carriers, a lot of retailers now are taking that in-house. So that's why this is becoming much more important. A lot of times, there's mixed pickup and delivery, like we talked about, residential appointment delivery, residential sweep, which is actually going along the arcs instead of delivering to nodes. Think of snow removal, for example. So there's a lot of different problems here in VRPs, or Vehicle Routing Problems. Whole books have been written about this. Well, what I want to do is go through a problem, just do a sample problem. And it's the Bespoke Ice last-mile delivery problem. So Bespoke Ice is a company, and you make and deliver eco-friendly artisanal vegan ice to very demanding and picky customers throughout the city. They require their ice to be handmade, of course, and delivered very quickly, because you don't want it to melt. You receive orders throughout the day. However, you deliver on the half hour. So what this means is if an order has come in at 1:10, 1:20, 1:25, they get included in the 1:30 PM delivery. So every half hour, you consolidate the last half hour, and you deliver them. And you deliver them from the central ice-making plant, or DC. Now, you only have four delivery tricycles. You don't want to use vans, of course, because that wouldn't be sustainable. So you have tricycles. They each can hold 5 bags of ice. Now, a tour, obviously, can't exceed more than 30 minutes, because it wouldn't be ready for the next cycle. And so we have to keep it to two constrictions here. One is a capacity restriction, and the other is a time or a tour duration restriction. So every 30 minutes, all the pending orders are swept in, compiled. And you determine the optimal route for the four tricycles. And you do this quickly. Any delivers not made within the half hour incur a very large penalty. So this is the problem. And so let's give it some flesh. So here is a snapshot, the orders as of 1:30 PM. I'm wrapping up those orders. I have 10 orders here, A through J. You see my distribution center plant is in the lower left corner. Each of these grids is a 0.1 by 0.1 kilometer. So the whole length is a 1-by-1-kilometer grid. And then remember, all orders are delivered on the tricycles. And they must start and end at the DC. So I want a continuous tour that starts at the DC and ends at the DC. And I want to have these different vehicles cover all the destinations. And I can use multiple ones. It's not like the traveling salesman problem, remember, where I have to hit each and every stop once and only once with one vehicle. Vehicle routing problems and expansion of that, I can use multiple vehicles. So I have 10 orders of ice. And each square there tells the order, A, B, C, D, up to J. And the second, the number, is the number of bags. So if you add them up, 15 total bags of ice have been ordered. Each trike can travel 12 kilometers per hour. Distances, like I said, are 0.1 kilometers, the tick marks in the grid. Each delivery, the unloading itself, takes 5 minutes, because you have to go to the customer refrigerator at the customer's location. And like I said, each truck can hold 5 bags of ice. Tours can't exceed 30 minutes. All right, how can we solve this problem? Well, we've done a bunch of these. If you've taken SC0x, you can-- you should be familiar with some of these. If you haven't, you can always refer to SC0x. It's always open. You can go there, and open, and look at the modules in the algorithms and approximations. So lots of approaches are available. And, essentially, your approach is a trade-off between speed of coming up with a solution and quality. The faster solutions tend to be not as good, but they're fast. To get an exact solution, it can take a very long time. So you can think of trade-offs. And we cover a bunch of these. Then we can talk about three really quickly. Then we'll dive deeper into one of them. They're simple heuristics, really quick things. You can look in-- as we saw the picture before in the previous slide, you probably thought about how you would route it, just in your head, because humans are good like this. We can think graphically. But you can use a heuristic like the sweep heuristic. And this is where you kind of draw a line heading north. And you sweep around until you cover enough spots that fills one of the trikes. And then that's one tour. You keep going till you fill up another, fill up another. And then what you're doing is you're clustering the stops. And then you're going to determine the route within. If you took SC0x, you'll know these are traditional cluster and route algorithms. So that's one simple technique. And there's a lot of other ones out there. Another more exact approach is optimization. We can create a mixed-integer linear program that would solve this. Now, as the problem gets big, it gets exponentially larger. And it becomes a problem. But you can solve it with a mixed-integer linear program. The nice thing about these optimization models is that they can include other factors, right? You can have a lot more interesting stuff within them, such as time windows, and preference of priorities, and things like that. We're not going to cover that. But we cover some of that in SC2x, when we get into mixed-integer linear program in depth for design. What I want to focus in is kind of what's known as advanced heuristics. They're not optimal. They're not guaranteed optimal. But they're pretty fast, and they're pretty robust. And the one we're going to talk about is the Clarke Wright savings algorithm. And so let me give you a quick recap of this. Again, go to SC0x if you want to work some examples and really see it in detail. We're just going to apply it here. So, essentially, the whole idea of Clarke Wright, or the savings algorithm, is you start with an initial solution. And your initial solution is to go to each location directly, make the load, and come back empty. So every tour has one delivery to it. Obviously, it's not a really smart tour. But that's what you start with, your initial solution. Then you want to identify what nodes you want to connect in a common tour. And the way you do this is through what's known as the savings calculation. That's why it's called the savings algorithm sometime. And so let's look at combining nodes 1 and 2. Does it make sense to combine those? Well, we can think about it. We can see the distance for delivering to these right now, in the current solution, is an out and back from the origin to 2 and an out and back from the origin to 1. If I combine them, it will look like this. It'll be a direct from the origin to 2, a lane from 2 to 1, and then from 1 back to the origin. So you notice, you added a lane from 1 to 2. But then you're going to take off two lanes, an origin to 2 and an origin to 1. So what you're going to do is look at that difference. So if the cost from going from the origin to 1 and the origin to minus the cost of that new node-- or, excuse me, that new lane from 2 to 1, if that's greater than 0, then you will save money. You will reduce the cost if you combine them. So that's the savings calculation. And so you can calculate that for every set of nodes. Just, it's a very simple calculation. And then all you do is run through those nodes, pairing the ones with the highest savings potential first. And you bring them together. And you also want to make sure at each step that you don't violate any capacity restrictions. Also, the other thing that makes it-- that's why is it heuristic is I can only add exterior nodes. If I have 3 nodes, let's say, and some are interior to the tour, I can't add that in to a new one. I can only add to the ends of the tour. It'll become obvious when we do an example. And that's what we're going to do next.
