Week 10, Lesson 2 · Video 3

PROFESSOR: All right. Let me wrap up the customer service and forecasting section for Clean and Green. What's the situation so far? Well, we start off with that initial problem, right, that was brought to Ralph. Transportation spend's way over budget. And of course, the first proposed solution was to fire the transportation team. Obviously that didn't make sense. After talking with transportation, it seemed like the problem was that they were being fed customer service lead times that were way too restrictive, too short, and forcing transportation to use expedited transport. And so the next question that Ralph needs to figure out is, well, why is that happening. And so what did he do? He went and talked to Lyle Hiatt, the director of customer service. And talking with him, of course, the response was, well, it's not me. The forecasts are all wrong. Because it turns out the forecasts get fed into customer service, and that they coordinate, then, the inventory being coordinated with the actual transportation. So it comes down to the forecast. And that's what Ralph is stuck with. So what's the first thing that you do? Well, hopefully you looked at the data. And so the data was showing the actual and the forecasted weekly demand in cases from 2 July, 2018 to 9, March 2020 for those weeks, 89 total weeks. And there were two products. The Sprout Clean, which is the low cost product sold through discount stores, selling a little over 300,000 per week on average. And the forecast that was given to you had a make of 13% and a mean percent error of negative 2%. So looking at that, you know the way that the error term is calculated as the forecast minus the actual, I'm sorry, actually minus the forecast, then that means what we're seeing is the forecast is higher. I'm biased high on this. And the make, but that's not great. 13%, you know, you can do better. It depends on how far we're going out. We're kind of looking week out here. Earth Wash is a higher end product sold in niche stores. Slightly less, about 248,000 250,000 cases sold per week. And the make there was much worse, 32%. That's just pretty bad. And a mean percent error of negative 10%. Again, it looks like we're over forecasting, over predicting. So you look at this, and hopefully the first thing you did, or maybe the second thing you did was graph it. Because that's always a helpful thing with time series, and forecasts are always time series. And so here's what you would get, and hopefully yours looks something like this. I've got the green, which I put Sprout Cleaner, and then the blue is in Earth Wash, and I put the dashed lines are the forecasts that you were given. So if we look at this, let's start with the Earth Wash, the blue lines first. Hopefully some things pop out. First thing is, there's seasonality. There's actual seasonality there in the demand, and the forecast totally missed it. I mean, they did a straight level line, it looks like. And so the things that should pop out you right there is their seasonality, try hold winters, and maybe I want to do a causal model with some seasonality indicators. And it looks like the season peaks around kind of a strange time in December to May, or March, rather. So kind of a winter kind of peak for this. Who knows why? And then you might want to say, well, I have 52 weeks in a year. But two things that are a problem here. I have limited duration, right? I don't have five years' worth of data. So that's going to be a hard way for me to figure out what my seasonality is, so you have to make some estimates. You're going to have to really pick just one, and maybe look at how it is for the average and use that. It's not going to be perfect, but you can always refine it as you go moving forward. The other thing is, do you really want to have 52 of those and do a seasonality by week? The other alternative is to aggregate this by month and do monthly forecasts. And then you would have a December, January, February, March flag for the high seasons. And then afterwards, you would, coming forecasting, you could divide by four and allocate that out. Many different ways you can skin the cat here. I'm going to leave it open for the details. Because hopefully you're coming up with models, and we'll hopefully be able to compare and talk about those. Turning to the Sprout Cleaner, the green ones, the big thing here is, yeah, the forecast is better, but it totally missed these promotions. There's these spikes. And it looks like they happen fairly regularly. And so what do you do here? Well, then this is when you want to separate out the demand, because you have two different things driving demand. And we made this pretty simple here, and this is actually based on some fairly real data. You look at the pattern of the promotions. And it seems silly here, but a lot of times, you just have so many SKUs and so much data. If you just take the average, and these things get lost. So it's helpful to try to identify these patterns, hopefully talk to people. Because remember. What you're seeing here is that everyone doesn't talk to each other, and that's one of the major problems you see in supply chain sometimes, when the forecasting doesn't talk to customer service, doesn't talk to transportation. The problem just ripples and rolls downhill and gets bigger as it goes. So we, hopefully, you identified patterns here. And the way that I did this is I just looked at my data and saw-- wanted to find any case where a week was more than 50%, I think 25% higher than the preceding and following week, flag that as a promotion. It kind of popped out that it was every four to five weeks. Looking more, it looked like it was at the end of each month. So what I did is I pulled that volume out and I assumed the base volume during that promotion would be the average of the preceding and following week. Took the rest out as a promotion, and then I said, OK, what does a promotion look like. We know what happens at the end of each month. So I know the frequency. What is the magnitude? And then I just looked at the surplus, the amount extra demanded during that promotion. I found a mean of about 143,000 with a standard deviation of 72 and a median of 155. It kind of skews heavy. So what I could do there is now I can model what a promotion volume is going to look like. I can also model the base demand now. I remove that promotion data, and now I can just look at the base demand by itself. It's going to be a kind of a trend up, you can kind of look at that. But there's a little bit of seasonality, again, in the winter months. So you could build that in, and then you would model the promotions. And for this, you might just want to use the average, or you might want to use a newsboy, right, to think about what the-- if we knew what the underage and the overage costs are, that would tell you how much you would want to try to understand how to use that. But for the forecasting, I would recommend using the average. So this is the thing that would feed into planning your inventory for a promotional or one time item. So anyway, these are the two different things, some of the takeaways you can see from this, and how you would approach that. What are the final things? Well, you know, there are some gray areas here. So you talk to customer service and they said, oh no, it's forecasting. But this kind of raises a big flag. Because they shouldn't just be taking that forecast blindly. This tends to me-- shows-- indicates to me that they're being a little more reactive than proactive. So I would look into this S&OP process. Remember, that's the Sales and Operations Planning. This is where the two sides of the organization come together to try to say, OK, what is the right forecast, what should we build to. And it seems like something's broken here, because the ops people downstream are suffering, right, all this last minute things. And it's not being incorporated back into the S&OP. It looks like there's no feedback loop. So I would look at that and try to make customer service a little more proactive and a little less just react to things. The forecasting is just a mess, and hopefully you picked up on that, and you probably nailed that right away because you guys, you know, jump on the quantitative things. But the big thing is the promotion planning for the Sprout Clean, you need to make sure-- and the other thing that you want to look for when you do this in real life, as you're looking back at the data you're going to use to develop your model, make sure there isn't some anomaly in there. There might be one massive promotion, or maybe there was a price change. So you have to make sure your history is going to be as close as possible as you think it can be to the future. So that means stripping out the promotions, stripping out the anomalies, try to get that future to be-- the past to be relatively what you think the future's going to look like. If you see some promotions coming on or other events, then you layer that on top. So you don't need to model everything within one model. You can model demand that is driven by different underlying sources and then layer them on top of each other. And there's a whole bunch of stuff you can do with improving the actual methodology. I left that open to you, whether you want to use ARIMA, time series, you can use hold winter, you can use a causal model. There's a bunch of different ways, and I look forward to seeing how well you guys did in the actual forecasting. So where would I go next if I was Ralph? I'd say, you know what? Planning, I need to work with them. I need to improve the forecasting, so that's kind of what we focused on here. But also, maybe I want to start going downstream, because this forecast feeds into more than just transportation. I bet this is affecting inventory. So my next step would be into inventory to understand how that's being managed. OK. Well, that wraps things up for the customer service side, which is really a forecasting side. So hopefully you got something out of that, and continue on with the case.
