Week 8, Lesson 1 · Video 6

OK, the next metric we're going to look at is the Cost Per Stockout Event, or CSOE. This is a cost metric, obviously. And it's going to be a cost amount, or a dollar, per the event of stocking out at all. It doesn't matter whether I'm short by 1 unit, 10 units, 100 units-- if I'm short at any quantity greater than 0, then it's a Stockout Event. And I get charged that amount, so that's what the penalty is. How does this affect our Total Cost? Well, if I look at my Total Cost equation with our four familiar terms-- let's go through them-- the Purchase Price, cD, that hasn't changed at all. The Ordering Cost hasn't changed at all-- it's still c_t times the number of Replenishment Cycles, D over Q. The holding cost has changed a little bit. We still have our cycle stock, Q over 2, but now I add my Safety Stock, k times sigma(DL). And then I've got this fourth term, which is a Stockout Cost. Remember what I'd said before, the form of the stockout equation changes depending on the Stockout Cost. In this case, my Stockout Cost is cost per an event of stocking out. So what would that term be? Well, first we have this B_1, which is the Cost Per Stockout Event. And that's going to be in units of dollars per event, that is, when I stockout at all. The second term-- D over Q-- is just the number of replenishments I expect. And this third term, probability that the demand x is greater than or equal to k, is simply the probability of stocking out per cycle. So combined, this term is my expected cost over the course of a year that the stockouts will cost me, given that there's a certain amount for each time in Replenishment Cycle that I stockout. So how do I solve for this? Well, I'm looking for a k. I'm looking for the k that minimizes this. So what costs are relevant? Only those terms that have k in them. So the Purchase Price is not relevant, the Ordering Cost is not relevant, the Cycle Stock is not relevant. What's relevant here is the Safety Stock and the Cost of the Stockout Costs. How do I solve for the optimal k? Just like we've been doing the whole course, we take a first order condition. So here's my Total Relevant Costs, where the first term is my Cost of Safety Stock, and the second term is my Cost of the Stockout. And now this is a little trickier. I'm going to take a first order condition of this and set it equal to 0. Just as a reminder, you might remember this from an advanced calculus course that the derivative of the probability that x is greater than k for the normal distribution is simply the negative of its pdf. So we're making the assumption now that we're in a normal distribution. And that means that I can substitute this term in, which is just the pdf for the normal distribution. So plugging this in, taking my first order condition, right, I end up with these two terms, set them equal to 0, and I'm just going to solve for k. Feel free to solve this yourself-- see if your algebra works-- but you should end up with k equals to square root of 2 times the natural log of B_1 times D, over the product of the Excess Cost, c_e, times the expected standard deviation over Lead Time, sigma(DL), times the order quantity, Q, times the square root of 2 pi. So it looks really ugly. It's an ugly term. But where did it come from? It's not magic-- it just came from first order conditions of your cost equation. And you just took the derivatives with respect to k to find the k that gives you the minimum Total Cost. OK, so how do we use this? We set up a decision rule. Because usually when you have a cost metric, you set up a decision rule that tells you what are the other factors that would give you the minimum Total Cost-- what k gives you that minimum cost. So we have two elements here to the decision rule. First, you have to make sure that the quantity is greater or equal to 1. And if it is, then you set your k equal to the square root of 2 times the natural log of that quantity. And this the same quantity that we found on the previous slide. If this condition is not met-- if this quantity is less than or equal to 1-- then management will set a k. OK, this probably raises some questions. First, why do I need this first condition here? Well, what would happen if this quantity, this B_1 * D over c_e Q sigma(DL) square root of 2 pi, what if this was equal to 1? Well, it's equal to 1, then this term, the natural log of that, is 0. So k would be 0. So that means that I'd have no buffer stock. If it was less than 1, if this quantity was less than 1, then the natural log of that becomes negative. You can't take a square root of a negative number-- you can, but it becomes an imaginary number-- so you can't have imaginary inventory. So therefore, you're restricted. This value has to be greater than or equal to 1. What if it's not? What does that mean? Well, that means that, according to the optimal cost, you should be keeping less Inventory On Hand than what you expect to have during Lead Time. And so, in that case, management will probably set a k, and say this is what we should use. How would you do that? Well, think about Cycle Service Level. So if I'm going to use my Cycle Service Level, and let's say I want to stockout no more than, say, 1 out of every 10 times. So that means my Cycle Service Level would be 90%, and which would give me k of 1.28. If I want to say my Cycle Service is 95%, so I only stock out 1 out of every 20 Replenishment Cycles, remember this will give me a k of 1.64. So you can think of it in terms of management, what would give you an equivalent. And that's only if that quantity falls below that-- because then that's saying you should have almost negative Safety Stock. OK, let's do a quick example, the same problem we've looked at. Nothing has changed here except I've added in a Cost of a Stockout Event, that B_1, and it's $50,000 for an event. Seems like a lot, but think about what this can do: If I'm short for something, it could shut down my entire production line. Shutting down an entire production line incurs a huge cost. So what would this do for me to determine my (s,Q) Policy? Well, my expected Demand Over Lead Time, and my standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time has not changed. Whatever I have for my performance metric does not change the underlying demand. I do need to check that the first condition is met, and so I'm just plugging in these numbers from the equation that we saw before. And I got 10.1. Play along at home, see if you get the same number-- hopefully you do. And since that is greater than 1, I can plug that in and find my k. And remember where this k, this equation, came from. It's just a result of the first order conditions for minimizing Total Relevant Cost for a given k. So it gives me a k of 2.15. I plug that back into my Reorder Point equation, which is going to be equal to the expected Demand over Lead Time, plus that new k we just found, times the standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time, and this gives me 5,758 units. So therefore, my (s,Q) Policy is order that Q*-- 5,200 units-- when my Inventory Position is less than or equal to 5,750 units.
