Week 8, Lesson 3 · Video 6

Now, we want to start talking about order picking. And since this is the biggest component, the biggest labor component, of warehouse operations we're going to talk about this in three different segments. So I want to first start talking about pallet level and then we'll get into other details. So, like we said, order picking is the most labor intensive task in a warehouse. It takes 50% to 60% of the total labor. Of that piece, the lion's share of it is due to traveling. So 55% of the order picking time is consumed by traveling. And then we can see 15% for searching, 10% for extracting, and then other tasks. So about 25% of the total labor effort within a warehouse is due to traveling for order picking. And so, you can see where we want to focus on minimizing that. And so, the method of picking differs based on the size of the thing being picked. As we've said, and this is a common lesson, if something is bigger, a pallet, it's easier and faster to move than a small individual item, or an each. And so, that's the most expensive and time consuming type of picking. Think about it this way. I can move thousands of items at one time by moving a pallet with a forklift than trying to do that one by one. And that's the power of consolidation, of having a pallet. That's why we have pallets and cases. It's easier to move a larger quantity at once. So the whole idea for pallets, or unit loads as it's sometimes called, is to try to determine not only how I'm going to pick it, but where I'm going to place it, these two decisions tied together. We kind of hinted at that in the put away section, but the whole idea here is we want to place these in a location that minimizes the total labor time, which is a proxy for distance, the total time to put away and retrieve. So. Think of it mathematically here I've got receiving and shipping location and I want to minimize the cost, right? This cost is the labor cost it takes to move something a certain distance. You can think about that. And then, I'm going to sum together the distance it takes to go from a receiving to location, i, and then to shipping, multiplied by the number of times I should be going to that slotting location, or that pallet location. So what I'm doing here is summing up the total transportation cost. Now, the one that's a little confusing, it just takes a second to think about, is this n. This is the average number of times a location, a slotting location, is visited per year. And assuming I have one SKU that goes in there, remember these are pallets, and it's going to be equal to the number of pallets that I sell throughout the year divided by my order quantity, how many pallets come in in the order. So this is essentially demand over q. So this is telling me the number of times that I'm going to go. We've been using this for inventory to look at the number of replenishments within a year. It's the same thing. So if product a sells 30 pallets per year and they come in a lot size of 5 pallets per order, then I'm expected to visit that location 30 over five, six times. Now, product B might sell 60 pallets per year, twice as much, twice as much volume. But the order quantity comes in in units of 30 pallets. It's a full truck. Now what this means, 60 over 30, the number of times that location is going to be visited is only two. This brings up a really key point. High volume, that's for sales out, does not necessarily indicate high volume of touches. So you see here, the number of times that I'm going to this location for product A is three times what it is for product B, even though product B sells twice as much. So the volume out doesn't necessarily reflect the effort within. And so the other thing you should notice is which, well, it's a question. Which product, A or B, would take up more space? And hopefully you'll be able to figure out that B does. Look at the turns. It's going to be sitting there for so much time. So you're making the decision here that, space is cheap, I can keep that much product here. Product A on the other hand, is constantly turning. So this is how we figured out the n. And essentially it's telling you the number of turns for that pallet. So if I do something like this, I can figure out that d sub i for any pallet slot location. And so, on the left, I've got my warehouse. And each of those little squares is a slotting area for a pallet. And so, I can only put one pallet in each slot, obviously. And what I've done here is I've color coded them from most convenient to least convenient. The darker the color, the more convenient location. And that's simply the sum from receiving to that location plus from that location to shipping. Now it's on a grid network so it's really easy to figure out. And, since this is a flow through network, it seems pretty obvious that things in that center location are the most convenient. So how would I use this? Well, it's a very simple heuristic. I rank all my positions from low to high. And so a low means it's a very convenient location, right? So the lowest, the smaller the d, the better. It's more convenient. And I rank all the SKUs at the pallet level from high to low, fast movers to slow movers. And then I'm simply going to assign the fastest moving SKU to the lowest or most convenient location. And once that's full I go to the next one. And so what you're going to do here is essentially allocate, or slot, the positions to the faster moving SKUs. So they get the more convenient spots. It makes sense because if I'm going there a lot I'd want to make that a close position or a convenient location. So note that this convenience, this di that I calculated, is a function of the warehouse layout in the flow. What I have on the left is a flow-through design. Receiving comes in at the bottom, the product flows up to the top to shipping. Now, I could have other functional forms. And what I have on this next slide is a series of them. I put together a spreadsheet, very simple, and it's contained in this lesson, you can play with it if you want, that created a 50 by 50 grid warehouse. And so what I wanted to show is the convenience of location and how I calculated that. And so what I color coded is this light blue on the bottom. That's my receiving. This purple is up at the top and that's where I'm shipping from. So I color coded, but based on the di, distance from the expected receiving area to the location and then onto the shipping area, and I use the centroid of all that shipping area. So I used on average, it would be right here. And the color reflects that convenience. The green is the most convenient. As it gets to yellow, to red, it becomes less convenient. So this mirrors what we did in the previous one. The flow-through, you see the center aisles are the most convenient. But let's change it. Let's say that both shipping and receiving are done on one side. So it's a u-shaped, but it's centered. So everything happens, the docks can be used multichanged for whether it's a shipping or receiving. And so we see that it follows this kind of triangle pattern. You see how that goes? It's like topographic. As I get further away it gets less and less convenient. Let's do another one. Here I have ordered a shipping and receiving on the bottom. It's a u-shape, but only the first half are for receiving. The second half of the docks or for shipping. And so you see what you have, it's a slightly different form. It gets flat, right? So you can see the topographic. That's why these color, these heat maps, are so easy use. They're very intuitive. And then here's another one. If I have a corner, so on the bottom I'm receiving and on the right-hand side are all my docks. Now why would you do something like this? , Well sometimes the space is dictated by what's there. And so you might just inherit this. But look at what's happening. You've got a lot of very convenient locations down here on the right, but look at, that might cause a lot of congestion if you're in a corner. Think about the complexity there. But, anyway, what I wanted to show was you can very. Easily calculate this convenient location and it's really based off a combination of putting away and receiving. And this is specifically for full pallets because there's no sharing of the slot. It's for one pallet only. So for all of these examples I assume that you have straight aisles. And that makes sense because it's usually best to have them parallel to the flow. However, there have been some studies to look at well, maybe it makes sense for me to have a cross aisle. And because this can shorten distances to go between different locations, you see in the red tour here, but it can increase total time for other tours because essentially I'm adding an intersection. And so I will always cross that intersection. So again, it's a trade-off. There have been some other studies that look at different types of aisles, like maybe this fish bone, or angled. And this can increase efficiency, especially if you have some kind of central location you're working around, some dispatch point. However, it does take up a lot more space. It can increase efficiency, studies said up to 20%, but look at how much more space you're consuming. So again, it's a trade-off. So the big thing, for all of this kind of pallet level picking, is the idea, put fast moving items in the most convenient locations. And convenience is a function of the layout of the warehouse as well as the shipping and receiving locations. That's the key point. You want to make sure that you're putting something away that's easy to get to, when you put it away, as well as when you retrieve it at the pallet level.
