Week 4, Lesson 1 · Video 1

In this lesson, I want to introduce inventory management. We're going to discuss why we hold inventory, the purpose for having an inventory, and talk about different ways to classify it. This kind of sets the stage for how we will develop inventory policies in the next lecture or two. So let's get started. First, why do we hold inventory? There are many reasons. Let me just go through a couple of them. And now, I will use as an example, that sandwich shop we talked about before where I have a bunch of raw materials, whether it's lettuce, meats, and then I bake my bread, and I combine them into sandwiches, and I deliver those to customers who want sandwiches. And so why would a sandwich shop want to hold any inventory? Well, one reason is to cover process time. I don't want to have to bake a loaf of bread every time someone orders a sandwich. It takes too long. Longer than someone would be willing to wait for a sandwich, most likely, so I will probably bake this bread ahead of time. And therefore, I'll have to have an inventory of baked bread ready for me to use. And I do that to cover the long process time it takes to bake bread. Another reason is to decouple processes or allow a process to be uncoupled. So in addition to baking bread, I also have to have someone to slice tomatoes, maybe slice the meat, in order to combine them to put onto my sandwich. Well, I might want to have some inventory of sliced tomatoes and sliced meat so I don't have to go to that person to ask them to slice it every time I need it. So this way, I'm uncoupled from the guy slicing the tomatoes and the person who slices the meat, and all those different processes, the individual processes, that it take to make a sandwich. By having inventory in between those, I decouple them. So I can slice a bunch of them up ahead of time and have them ready, and maybe use that same person to slice the meat instead of doing it one at a time. In order to make that happen, I've got to have inventory to allow that decoupling to happen. Another big group of reasons are the idea of anticipation or speculation. They're somewhat related. Think about anticipation in my sandwich shop. I know there's going to be a big surge for sandwiches around lunch time, so I'm going to make finished good ahead of time. I'm going to make sandwiches in the morning, ready for when that surge comes, so I don't have to peak my processing when that peak demand comes in for lunch. Speculation is a little bit different. And the idea, here, is that I might want to buy some things ahead of time because I think the price of it will increase later on. So I'm going to buy it now while it's low. This happens a lot in commodities, like copper or tin, where people will try to buy these things ahead of time before the price increases. They're speculating that the price is going to increase. Another big category is the idea of minimizing your control costs. Every time I place an order, that costs time and money. And so, maybe, I want to figure out better ways to aggregate my orders so that it costs less time to control them, to place those orders. And if I do that, maybe I'm only placing my orders for bread every two days instead of every day, or every time I need a new loaf. Well, as I do that, I've got to have more inventory to cover the time in between those deliveries. So it's another reason to have inventory to allow me to minimize my control costs. And then the last big category is uncertainties. If I have uncertainty, then maybe I want to have a little extra inventory to buffer that. So we know all about demand uncertainty when we looked at forecasting. I might have a predicted forecast where I'd expect demand to be, but I know it's going to be wrong, so maybe I want a little bit of extra inventory so I don't run out. Well, the same thing applies to the supply side. If I have a supplier who's not that consistent, maybe their delivery times are not that consistent-- sometimes it comes on a Monday, sometimes on a Wednesday-- then maybe I want to have a little extra supply just in case they run a little late, so I don't run out. So just as you buffer for demand uncertainty, you can also buffer supply uncertainty. And then you can also think about your own internal processing uncertainties. Suppose that when I bake my bread, every hundredth time I bake bread, I burn the batch. So therefore, I might want to have a little extra inventory in case I burn a batch of bread, so I have some standing by. So all of these deal with buffering against uncertainty. So these are some reasons why we hold inventory. Now, let's look at the types of decisions we are going to make. And you can really break these down at the strategic, tactical, and operational levels. Let me explain each in turn. At the strategic level, these are things you make a decision for a one, two, three years out, your longer-term decisions. These are not decisions you make every day, they're longer-term decisions. And they might be things, such as, what are the potential alternatives for me to hold inventory? So for example, maybe I just want to have very, very, very fast transportation instead of having a bunch of inventory. Therefore, if someone demands something, I just ship it to them really quickly instead of having extra inventory there to be able to satisfy them. It's a classic trade-off, a classic alternative to having inventory, something you want to make it a longer-term decision. Also, you might want to look at how the supply chain or how the product is designed. Is it designed with the supply chain in mind? How are you going to ship things and how are you going to store them. At the tactical level-- and these are decisions made within a year, say, within a month, a quarter, or a year-- then these are known as deployment decisions. And which items specifically should I carry as inventory and where should I place them? This is especially important when I'm launching a new product where I want to know where they should be held. And so this is in anticipation of the uncertainty of what the demand will materialize. Also, what form should I keep them in? Maybe, if I have, say, a smartphone that I'm selling, and I have different colored shells, maybe I want to keep the internal components separate from the different colored shells at the store so I can always add them on, and so I don't have pre-packaged red ones, orange ones, or blue ones. I want to decide at that point of purchase which one to put on. And in that case, I'd be storing. I'd have inventory-- my core components and my shells, and I would manage those a little separately. And then the last level is what's known as the operational level. And these are decisions that I make at the daily, weekly, monthly level. And there are three big questions I want to make to determine my replenishment. The first is how often should I be checking my inventory status? Should I always be looking at it? Should I only check it once a week? Once every two weeks? So how frequently should I check? Then the next question is when should I place an order? How do I know when to place the order? Even though I'm checking every week, do I place it every week or do I wait for some trigger to happen? And then the last question is how much should I order? How large should my replenishment be? And these three questions combined determine what's known as our inventory policy. And this is where we're going to focus a lot of our time over the next several lessons. Because these replenishment decisions are critical to how a supply chain is set up. OK, next I want to talk about classification of inventory. Because this is a critical component because different people in your organization will view inventory differently. The first type of classification that you see are known as financial or accounting categories. And if I go back to my sandwich shop, if I walked into a sandwich shop, I'd be able to identify what the raw materials were-- the tomatoes, the heads of lettuce. I'd be able to identify the work in process or the components. This is where they have been-- the tomatoes are sliced, the bread is sliced. Things are partially put together. And I could point to the finished goods-- the sandwiches themselves. Well the idea, here, is these financial categories all look at the added value. So as I add value to them, they change into their accounting category. And this makes sense for accounting because this is how you're trying to account for your costs. But one thing that these accounting categories do not do is they don't track opportunity costs. And they really don't help determine how I want to manage my inventory. And that's why we're going to focus in on what's known as functional roles. And these functional roles are the ways that inventories are used. And so I'm just going to introduce three of them. And I'm going to do that through the use of this inventory chart. And this inventory chart, we'll be seeing a lot of these. On the horizontal axis is the time. So this is just the passage of time. And on the vertical axis-- this is just the amount of inventory I have. And so the first category is cycle stock. And cycle stock is simply the amount of inventory I have in between my deliveries or my replenishments. This is known as the cycle. Oops, that's not a very straight line. But this is the cycle time. So the cycle stock is all of this inventory. Let me just color it in. So that's the amount of my cycle stock, the amount of inventory I expect to deplete over the course of my replenishment cycle. Now, cycle stock, you'll see, kind of sits on top of what's known as safety stock. Safety stock is the inventory that I have that to cover or buffer against the uncertainties, whether it's demand uncertainty, supply uncertainty, processing uncertainty-- it doesn't matter. So it's the amount of safety stock. And you can see that the cycle stock floats on the safety stock. And then there's a third category called pipeline inventory. And this is the inventory where I've place the order, but it hasn't arrived yet. And so it's in the pipeline. It's on the truck. It's being processed. It hasn't arrived yet. And so these are the three major categories there we're going to deal with. How do they differ from the financial ones? Well, like I said, we could go into the sandwich shop and point to each of these, the raw materials, the WIP, the components of finished goods. I can't go into the sandwich shop and point, oh, that tomato is cycle stock and that tomato is safety stock. It doesn't work that way. These are the way it's used, but I can't clearly tag each item to say which one they are, whether it's cycle or safety, because it's how they're being used. And so this is the area that we're going to use. We're going to focus on these functional categories because that's how we manage inventory. And we're going to use what's known as a total cost equation to determine policies to try to minimize our total inventory cost.
