Week 7, Lesson 1 · Video 4

OK let's solve the same problem now, but making an assumption in using a theoretical demand distribution. So back to my rotisserie chickens and here's what my demand looks like over 180 days. And so it doesn't tell me too much looking at this run chart, but if I turn it into a histogram, and this shows me the percentage of the time, or percentage of the days where I sell 6, 7, 8, and so on chickens that helps me see it a little clearer. And by looking at that histogram, I might say, this looks like a discrete uniform distribution with a minimum of 6, a maximum of 14. So what does that mean? Well I'm going to assume my distribution, the underlying demand for sales of chickens is going to follow this distribution where the values from 6 to 14 is roughly going to be-- that's supposed to be a straight line-- around 11% each. So the accumulative probability obviously sums up to 100. So I could treat this as an empirical, distribution but we're going to use this theoretical one to show you how it works. But it's so much easier than keeping all of this data that the empirical distribution would require us to do. And if you look at it, if I sampled another 180 days, it wouldn't follow exactly what we had here. It'd probably be closer to something similar to that uniform distribution. So by using a theoretical distribution, you're actually capturing something of a more robust feel of the structure of the demand. So let's talk about uniform distribution. This should be a refresher. So what we're saying is, each value between the min and the max, in this case 6 and 14 has an equal probability of happening. So the notation is going to be, if it's uniform, and the parameters are a and b. Minimum is a, maximum is b. And then the number of values, in this simple example I could just count, but it's always going to be the max minus the min plus 1, because you have to actually count that minimum observation. We can also look at the mean, the median, the mode, and the variance. Actually the mode doesn't make sense since all the values are equally likely. And here are just the standard equations for these. And so we can create the probability mass function or PMF. And this is simply telling me the probability for each observation occurring. And that's simply 1/n. So here I have 9, so 1/9 is about 11%. The CDF or the cumulative density function tells me the probability that I will have demand less than or equal to a certain value. And so this is exactly what we did for the empirical, but here we have a nice little closed form. It's x minus a, which is the minimum, plus 1 divided by n. And that's simply summing up all the probabilities up to that level. So the nice thing about using a theoretical demand distribution, I have these nice little closed form solutions that I can use. So let's answer our questions. How many chickens do I need to make sure my probability of stocking out is less than or equal to 10%? Well before I had my little chart down here and I could go down and say, OK, when do I get to 90? Well I actually have to have 14 chickens, because 13 only protects me 89% of the time, so I have to go to 14. An easier way is to go and use the CDF, that cumulative density function up here. And all I do is plug-in and say, OK, probability that x is less than equal to x, this is 0.9 and I solve for x. And so I know that a is 6, so if I solve for that it gives me 13.1. So if I could have a 10th of a chicken I could have 13.1, but I need to have whole chickens there. So I would need to have 15 in order to make sure I don't stock out less than 10% of the time. OK what is the probability of stocking out if I only produce 8? So I'm going to make 8 chickens now. I want to know what is my service level, what's the probability I won't stock out, what's the probability I will stock out. So I can use the same table like we did for the empirical. So for 8 chickens, let me just circle that, that's 33%. So therefore, probability of stocking out is 1 minus 0.33 or 67%. Now the beautiful thing about using this uniform distribution, I don't need to create that table. I can go up here-- let me just clean this up a little bit. There we go. And I can solve for x is 8. 8 minus 6 plus 1/n is 0.33 that tells me the probability. So that tells me the probability that my demand will be less than equal to 8. 1 minus that will tell me what the probability of stocking out is. Hopefully that makes sense. So I don't need to create this big cumulative probability table if I know that it's a uniform distribution, I can just use this formula. OK, expected units sold and expected units short. We're going to use the same method that we did for the empirical distribution. So for expected units sold, it matters if I have less, the demand is less than what I have on hand. I'm going to sell what is demanded. Above that, I'm going to have what I actually roasted, so that's 8. So the first term is going to be 6 times the probability of it happening, 0.11 plus 7 times 0.11 plus 8 times 0.11. So that's the first half if demand is less than or equal to 8. Now, if demand is greater than 8. So if it's 9, 10, and all the way up to 14, I'm going to multiply the number that I have on hand, 8 times each of those probabilities. Note that that is the same thing as multiplying 8 times the probability of stocking out, which we already figured out up here. Because this probability, the probability that I'm going to have demanded between 9 and 14, is the same probability that I will stock out if I have 8. So all I need to do is multiply the number I have on hand, 8 times that probability. So this gives me 7.7. So I can always use the cumulative table to calculate these, but I can also be a little more clever. OK. So expected short, same thing. Let me just clean this up just a little bit. OK. So if demand is less than 8, if it's 6, 7, or 8, how many will I be short? So if I'm in here, I will be short 0. And if I have demanded greater than that, 9, 10, or whatever, how many will I be short? Whatever that number is minus 8. And that I multiply by the probability of that happening. And so if 9 is demanded, 9 minus 8 is 1 times 0.11, plus 10 minus 8 times 0.11, plus 11 minus 8 times 0.11, all the way up to 14 minus 8. Again, times 0.11. And so gives me 2.3 chickens per day. Adding those together just to make sure it matches, it should equal 10, because that's the average demand that I expect each day. So let me do a quick aside, because we kind of did this by hand here to find the expected unit short. There's an easier way. Because I know the formula, the theoretical distribution for the demand I can rely on some other results. So I'm showing in this chart is actually on the horizontal, the number of chickens demanded and the number that are actually sold is on the vertical. Blue Means I sold that many. Red means I'm short. So this is where I have 8 on hand. So I have 8 chickens. And so depending on the demand, you can see the two zones here. If demand is less than 8, I'm going to sell what is demanded. If demand is greater than 8, I'm only going to sell 8. Hopefully this picture helps you realize what expected units short are. So this explains why, if I add together the expected units short, the red, plus my expected units sold, it adds up to my expected demand. So given that my demand is distributed uniformly between a and b, then the expected units short given that I have x on hand is going to be this formula. 1/n times b, which is the maximum, minus x times 1 plus b minus x/2. Now let me explain where this comes from. The probability of each value is the same. That's that 1/n term. Now the second term is actually a nice little result. That the sum of a series of integers from 1 to k is equal to k times 1 plus k/2. You can play with this yourself and prove that it's true, but it's a nice result. So saying that something from 1 plus 2 plus 3 plus 4 up to k is going to be equal to k times 1 plus k/2. So if I put those together, because what I'm actually doing for expected units short, here k is 1, it's 2, it's 3, it's 4, it's 5, and it's 6. You say it's the same thing, expected units short. I'm just subtracting out what I expect to sell minus my demand. So I can just plug that in to find the expected short. I don't need to build that whole cumulative table to do this item by item. That's the beautiful thing about having theoretical distributions. You end up with some equations or closed form solutions that you can rely upon. All right, so that was our first solution using the uniform discrete distribution, and now we're going to move on to look at some other ones.
