Week 10, Lesson 1 · Video 2

So now let's talk about the transportation product. And this is whether it's freight transportation, passenger transportation, it doesn't matter. Anytime a product, a person is moved, consider that the transportation product. And when you think about the product, there's really only four operations that it consists of. And that is loading and unloading, a line haul move, vehicle routing, and facility sorting. And I'll explain all of these. But let's start with the simplest move possible. And that is picking up stuff from one location and going directly to another. So when we look at that-- and in this case, we have a truck that's going to go from plant A to customer B-- the first step is that loading and unloading. And this seems like a trivial activity, but actually it drives a lot of the costs. So what affects the cost of that? Well, you can think of how much time does it take to load and the labor it takes to actually do it. Now, what drives the time? Well, you can think of it-- it's pretty obvious-- the amount of stuff you have. So the quantity of the product. The ease of loading. Think about whether it's on a pallet or whether it's loose sand, right? And so there's different things you can do to package and make it so that the freight or the people are easier to move or more difficult. Also, you can think about how easy is it to store things together. That's called stowability. And so if I'm moving in light bulbs, then that might be a little more fragile than if I'm moving in bricks. So you can think about the cost and time that it takes to load and unload. And there's both a fixed and a variable cost with that. And it's variable generally with respect to the quantity. If I'm loading 1 pallet versus I'm loading 20 pallets, it's probably going to take a fixed amount of time plus 20x more units time to load each pallet on. So that's the loading. And you can think of the reverse with the unloading at the other end. And the same economics apply. Then you've got the line haul. This is the one-to-one move. I go from A directly to B. And that's a direct line haul move, or a one-to-one direct move. And what are the costs there? Well, it's really going to be driven by how much time it takes. But that's really driven by the distance. So the longer the distance, the more the time. And there's also in every country special rules. I can only drive so many hours a day, and all those other details. But basically, distance drives the cost, along with something else, the balance. And that's the issue that when this truck, in this case, gets to customer B, unloads, what does it do next? Where does it go? It's going to drive empty somewhere to pick up another load. That's the balance problem. You have to make sure that you can get from where you drop off your load to where a new load is available. So the costs are distance, time, and then the balance. How hard is it, how easy is it for me to find a follow-on load? So you have fixed and variable costs. The variable costs are respect to distance and time. And then that fixed cost, a lot of it is the ease of me finding a follow-on load, that balance problem. And that comes back and is very important in a lot of other transportation activities. OK, that's loading, unloading, and then the line haul. Now we're going to go into the vehicle routing. So in this case, I'm going from plant A. And I have 3 customers, B, C, and D. And I have product going to each of them. The question is, do I go to B then C then D? Or do I go to C first, then D, then B? Or do I go to C, D, and then deliver B somehow other way? So this is vehicle routing. So the costs are really a function of the distance I have to go, the number of stops I'm delivering to, obviously, and the time that it takes. What drives the time? The density, how close are my destinations to each other? So as that's denser, then I'm going to have a shorter intra-stop distance. So what that means is it'll take me less effort. As opposed to if I'm delivering out in a rural area where everyone's 20, 40, 30 miles away, that takes more time. So the density drives a lot of the cost for vehicle routing. Now this is where we get into the differences. We talked about one-to-many, single origin multiple destinations or stops. Many-to-one is just the opposite-- multiple origins with us going out to a single destination. And then there's something called interleaving. And what this means, I'm picking up and dropping off as I go. It's harder than you think. So typically most companies will try to separate those. Have a route that's delivering, one-to-many, and then another one that might be collecting, many-to-one. But this is the vehicle routing problem. The last operation is the facility sorting. So think of it this way. I've got a facility here. I have a bunch of product coming in from different locations. And notice that they're destined to different customers. So I have these other outbound vehicles coming in. And each one is going to go to a separate destination. And so then I have to have some kind of sorting at the facility. All of the products that are going to F get sorted, the E, and to D. And then those trucks eventually go away. Seems trivial, and what's funny is, we do this ourselves. Anytime you travel to an airport, you do what I just showed on the screen. You just self-sort. You come in on one gate, and you walk and go to the other terminal and go to the other gate. You're sorting. Passengers do this on airlines. We do it in bus stations. We do it in train stations. It's what we do. For products, they don't sort themselves. So you have to have some kind of sorting. If you're in a less-than-truckload organization, you have docks and people will move full pallets around. If it's much looser than that, then there might be conveyor belts, if it's like a parcel. But in any case, you're sorting from the inbound to the outbound. And there's cost here. And you can think what's driving the cost-- the quantity of the stuff I'm moving. How easy is it to move it? Are those loose packages, or are they on pallets? Are they all unitized? And again, stowability. How easy is it to move these things? Is it loose sand bags, or is it tightly wrapped pallets? It makes a difference. And again, as with everything, there's a fixed and a variable cost here. And its variable cost is dependent on the quantity being shipped. So I've got four fundamental operations-- loading and unloading, line haul moves-- that's the one-to-one direct move-- vehicle routing where I'm going one-to-many or many-to-one-- and then facility sorting, where I'm bringing many in and sorting them out to be many out. And why do I bring these up? Because these classify the type of the move. A one-to-one, a one-to-many, or many-to-many. One-to-one direct moves only have those two first activities, which means we don't have to worry about the routing or the facility sorting. And that's very important, as you'll see later. One-to-many needs loading and unloading, obviously line haul between hubs. And then it has that vehicle routing component. And then the many-to-many is the most complex. And that involves all four of those operations. So four fundamental, simple operations. The combination of those determine that type of move-- a one-to-one, a one-to-many, and a many-to-many. In the next section, we'll talk about why that's important.
