Week 10, Lesson 1 · Video 8

OK, let's solve another one-to-many problem, but this time it's a planning problem. I don't have exact data yet. I have approximations and estimations, and so it's a little more complicated. And I'm going to do a case-- it's based off of a thesis that was done a couple years ago. And it's Plaza Foods doing direct store delivery to Hava stores. And again, this is based off of a thesis that was done here at MIT in 2007. Actual company, changed the names. So what Plaza Foods does is a leader in frozen pizza business. Big business in the US. They sell and deliver frozen pizza and other products through over 30,000 grocery stores using what's known as direct store delivery. Now, the DSD network is where the supplier-- the manufacturer-- delivers the product actually to the store. And so they go into the store, and they merchandise, they set it up and make sure it looks pretty. And this is instead of delivering it to the retailer's distribution center and letting the retailer deliver to the store. Now, Hava is one of the stores they deliver to, and it's one of their top grocery stores in New England, which is this part of the United States. They have 160 stores and account for almost a 1/3 of Plaza's total sales in New England, which is big, right? It's a big customer. And Hava also has a really good logistics network. The majority of the product they get and deliver to their stores, Hava receives it in their distribution centers, and they deliver it themselves to their stores. They're very good at that. And so they've been wondering recently is, why are they still doing DSD? Because a lot of times retailers don't like DSD, direct store delivery, because someone else is coming into their store. They have a truck parked in front of their store. But DSD is widely used. And we talk about this in SC2x in greater detail when we talk about channels. But just to bring it down to what we're looking at, the challenges that they're requesting of Plaza that maybe, you know what? We don't want to do DSD anymore. And Plaza wants to figure out, well, doesn't make sense to switch? There's some thoughts at doing DSD, the manufacturer does a better job at merchandising because they're focused on that product rather than all the products in the store, so we'll look at that and see what impact that has. But the question we want to answer is, should Plaza switch from a direct store delivery network they do now, to traditional replenishment through Hava's DCs? So here is the current plan. In the top left, I've kind of a flow diagram here. The supplier is Plaza, and so the idea is that they deliver to the back door of the retailer, they bring stuff into the back room, and they go and merchandise on the shelf. And merchandising simply means stocking the shelf, making sure it looks good, all the products are nice in a row, and you're using your allotted space, in the freezer in this case. On the bottom left, we have a kind of a flow chart. Where does it go? So the DSD merchandiser is monitoring the inventory level, forecasting the demand, and placing the order. That's part of DSD, is that they're focused on ordering the product too, to make sure they never want to stock out on that shelf. Now, the DSD drivers ship the product to the location, they receive and update the inventory, the retailer does that. And then the merchandising, again, is done by Plaza, which is the merchandiser for the supplier. So on the right is kind of the map, and the plant for this is in-- somewhere in Nebraska, where they make these frozen pizzas, they deliver it down to a DC they have located locally, that Plaza DC in blue. And so Plaza, the pizza manufacturer, does all the blue lines. They do the line haul in to their own DC, and they have local delivery trucks that make the deliveries to all the stores. So this is what they're currently doing. What is being proposed is a little different. And this is where they would deliver-- let me just bring it out on the right hand side-- Plaza would deliver straight to the Hava DC, which is located there in the red. And then Hava would make its own delivery and its own route trucks with all the other product they have to all their stores. So this changes the flow. And I'll let you, if you want a look at some of the details here of the flow charts-- not as relevant to what we're going to be doing for the analysis, but it's kind of interesting to understand how DSD and traditional changes, who does what. And you can see that the supplier at their warehouse to the retail, they receive, they do cross-docking, and then the retailer does the receiving and does the back room shelf and everything down to the actual store. On the bottom you see the flow chart. And you can compare this to the previous of who does the ordering. Right, they do the ordering now at the store. So there's a lot of arguments why DSD, they might be more focused on the product, rather than now this product is just one of many that the forecaster is focused on. And you can see how the changes are. But the big difference is, who's doing the last mile delivery? So how do you figure that out? Here's an actual map, and you can kind see where all the stores are, and the triangles are the, what's known as the centroid of a region of stores-- a cluster of stores. It's kind of the center point. If this was a plate, and all these points had weight, if I put my finger on it, that's where it would balance. That's the centroid. And so you can see, there's, I think, seven different ones out there, the loops. And the idea is, I want to define each of these as a tour. So the question is, what's my distance? It's not like every store gets delivered to every day, necessarily, so I don't know exactly when they're going to be delivered. All I know is what? The area and the number of stores I could potentially go to. You can use something called approximation, which recover in SC0x to help you solve this problem. Because what you want to figure out is, how much-- or what is the cost going to be to deliver, locally, to each of those stores? OK, so we're going to do this using continuous approximation. And each store, you can think of, consists of two components-- a line haul that goes to the centroid, on average and back, so two line hauls, and then a local. And the local goes from that centroid to all those different locations. And you actually wouldn't go to the centroid, you'd go to one of the stops, obviously. But on average, it's going to be the centroid. So you're kind of averaging that out. Now, the cool thing for this-- the approximation-- I'll just bring this out, is the second term. So my distance of a tour is going to essentially be approximated as two of those line halls, right, to the centroid, one out, one back. And the second term, k times the square root of n times a, that's the approximation of the local delivery. And it's based off some analysis. You can go look at SC0x and get some more details on this and work through some problems, but essentially it's saying, as I increase the number of stops, n, then my distance entered for that local delivery will go up. Kind of makes sense, right? We talked about the driver. As my area gets bigger, so let's say n stays the same but I get a wider area, instead of a kilometer-by-kilometer, I'm 100 kilometers by 100 kilometers. Then my distance is going to go up as well. How much does it go up? By the square root of that product. Now, this k term is something that was kind of found empirically, and for different networks it's been estimated. And a good estimator is 0.7 to 0.76. There's some other cases, and you can look in SC0x where you have a higher or lower number, but around a 0.7 something-- it's not a bad estimate. So what we're saying is, if I know n and I know a, it's essentially the density of the stops, then I can get a good estimate of what the local delivery would be. So that's what I'm going to do. And that's what Phillip did in his thesis. So he developed what all the costs would be, and he did some other things, too, because there's some other differences-- who does the handling? Who does the storage? Those kind of things. But the critical things-- if you look at the line haul transportation, you notice on the left for the DSD comparison, you have a line that says, milk run transportation. That's all the local delivery. That's what Plaza is doing, right? 179,000. You notice that is not part of the traditional, because now Hava's doing this. So this is just the cost to Plaza. So the net, you add all these up, and you see there's a three high [? piled ?] stack and a four, it's just what you do in the actual trailers. Can you stack three? Can you stack four? We're going to assume it was a question for this problem, but we're going to assume you can stack four. And you'll notice that the DSD is more expensive. It costs Plaza more to do DSD. $1.6 million compared to $1.2. So about a $374,000 lower cost if I go traditional. That's about 5% of the net sales revenue. Remember, these are costs. But if I look at sales, that's about 5%. So that's pretty big. So the question is, should I switch? Traditional's cheaper. Why not? And this is what the approximation allowed you to get this estimate of that cost difference for the last mile delivery. But let's think about it. So what Philip did is he created this chart, and he figured out it really depends on the margin. And so his thought process-- and I think this makes sense-- was, well, OK, DSD has higher costs, but does it give a higher level of service? Kind of what we hinted at. Does it justify it? Does it lead to higher sales? If I go to traditional, then, sure, but will I lose some sales? I don't want to lose sales. No one wants to lose sales. Because you could think about the lowest cost solution is, don't deliver anything, and my costs are going to be zero. Obviously, I'll lose a lot of sales. So the question is, does DSD-- what's the incremental lost sales? And what he figured out-- and you could just do this by running through different parameters-- is that it depends on the margin. What's your profit margin of that product? If it's really low, then your required sales bump that you assume DSD is going to get, has to be really big-- plus 30%. As that margin gets bigger on the product, then the sales bump gets smaller. And you can see that chart there, that gives you an idea. Now, what the supply chain team did, is they went with this to their marketing team and said, OK, what do you think our sales bump really is, and to figure that out, because that's a hard thing to figure out. But the nice thing is that this-- they were able to use the continuous approximation to be able to make a cost estimate to be able to make this decision. And what they found is that DSD is obviously more suitable for products with a higher margin, where you have more of a challenge of losing the sale. And as the higher supply chain costs of DSD can be more easily justified if you have the higher margin. So this is a great example, planning sample, using a simple approximation. The square root of na times k, that k factor is a nice back of the envelope on a bar napkin kind of estimate you can use to estimate local delivery in a constrained area.
