Week 3, Lesson 2 · Video 4

So how do companies come up with new product ideas and launch them? Well, every company is a little bit different, but generally, they follow the same type of process. And it serves as a funnel, where new ideas come in here on the left, and you might have lots of those, and I have far fewer products that actually get launched into the market. Now, to help companies go from these many to these few, companies usually set up a series of gates. And gates are simply a set of metrics, where each new idea needs to pass these certain metrics in order to go to the next stage. So the way these are set up is they get progressively more difficult and more demanding. And they might be in terms of financial targets, in terms of cost, in terms of revenue, profitability, the whole size of the market for sales, whether it cannibalizes existing products, et cetera. So you can think of a series of gates or questions that are required for that product or that new idea concept to pass before it's allowed to go to the next stage of development. And this is done for two reasons. One is, you want to make sure that good ideas make it to the market. But second, and probably more importantly, you want to make sure that the bad ideas never see the light of day. So you want to separate the wheat from the chaff. So we can think of, in between these gates, are what's known as stages. This process is also often called a stage-gate process. And the number of gates and number of stages differ from companies. Some have six, some have eight, there's a whole professional society that looks at this. And so this is a really quick overview of what is essentially almost a discipline. So you have this first stage here, which is discovery, idea generation. The next stage is a little more detailed. You try to scope out the size of the market. Then you might have a stage where you're building the business case for your individual firm. What will the revenues be for this firm? You might go into development in the next stage, where you build a prototype. You might test and validate this in a pilot study in another stage. And each of these lead, eventually, to the last stage, which is commercialization and launch. And so the idea here is that I'm taking an idea, and I'm really refining it, improving it, and eventually, commercializing it. Now, if you look at the number of ideas that come in, studies have shown that out of the 100 ideas that come in in stage one, about 2/3 make it to that initial scoping, about half make it to building the business case, about a third to actually development of some sort of prototype, and about a quarter make it out into the market. So we're talking about forecasting, so why do we care? Well, the type of forecast will change based on where you are in this process. The initial stages are more "total market revenue" potential. You're looking, trying to understand how big is this potential market. Then you're going to start looking at what is the potential of sales for this firm, for my firm, if I introduce this process, this product? Then I go to stage four and five. I'm looking at forecasting unit sales, at the eaches level. And finally, at the end, I not only have to forecast my unit sales, but by location, because I need to know how to deploy this product out into the market. So as you can see, as I go through from the stage one to stage six, from the initial stage of ideas, I'm going from many ideas to very few final products. My forecasting process and my forecasting technique will change. And so this is based off of a survey that was done of about 170 firms and looked at the different methods that are used. And as you can see, the different types of methods, it's widely varying. And you can see these subjective metrics-- subjective forecasts, rather. Customer market research, executive opinion, sales force composites. They're the most heavily used, and that makes sense that they're probably used predominantly during the first couple of stages, where you're trying to get a big sense of whether I should start or even enter this market. But they also differ in terms of the product type. So if it's a new-to-company or new-to-world, you'd expect to see more of those subjective techniques as well. But on average, companies don't use just one, they use about three different methods. And it depends on where you are in the stage, as well as the type of product that you're trying to forecast for. It also differs in terms of who you're selling to, because business-to-business, B2B firms, tend to use these more qualitative or subjective forecasting methods than business-to-consumer. Now, why? Probably because there's many, many more consumers, so you have more history that you can rely upon. On average, you don't have as many businesses if you're a B2B firm than if you're a B2C firm, you have many more consumers that you're dealing with. And also, they differ in terms of that the forecasting horizon is a lot longer for the B2B versus the B2C firms. You have much faster lifecycle for those consumers. But anyway, this gives you a sense of the different types of methods that are used for forecasting for new products. Now, what we're going to do next is go into something that we haven't talked about, because we've talked about some of these, and we've talked about exponential smoothing, linear regression, moving average. We haven't talked about looks-like analysis. So let's talk about that really quickly, and then we'll dive in depth to another different type of technique. So essentially, what looks-like or analogous forecasting is just what it sounds like-- you look at something similar that has been launched in the past. You look for a comparable product launch. You create a month-by-month or week-by-week-- whatever your periods are-- sales record, and you use this percent of total sales as a guide to the trajectory of what your sales for your new product launch is going to look like. And this is similar to using what's known as comps or comparisons in real estate. I look at like properties-- the same square footage, the same location-- and then I use that as a comparison to see if the property I'm looking at, if it's in the right ballpark. So some people talk about using a structured analogy, and this is simply a refinement of what we're doing up here, where you create a database of all past launches and you track the sales over time. But then you characterize each of the launches by product characteristics-- the type of the product, the category, the season that it was introduced, is it a winter introduction or fall, the price, the competitor's price, maybe some of the market demographics that you're targeting, and then physical characteristics of the product. This way, when I have a new launch, I can search and I can query by any of these characteristics and see, OK, this launch, which was kind of similar to mine, looked like this. And they had 30% of their sales in the first two weeks. I can use that as an estimate. Now, the only caveat that we put to this is that you have to avoid-- it's a whole critical how I populate this database. I have to avoid only including the successful launches. People try not to remember the ones that were not successful, but those are very important to make sure that data makes it into your database. So this is kind of a quick overview of looks-like analysis.
