Week 7, Lesson 1 · Video 10

OK, I've saved the best for last. We're going to solve the rotisserie chicken problem one more time, and I'm going to use the triangle distribution, which is my favorite distribution. So same problem-- we are working for a supermarket, and we're trying to figure out how many chickens to roast each day for different situations. And so I go and ask what the problem or what the data is, and they don't have any. Or it's not reliable. So what do you do in this case? Because this happens more frequently than you would think. And the best approach is to actually talk to people in the field, talk to people who are actually using it, because people can usually remember extremes-- the lowest and the highest temperatures, the slowest and fastest transit times, the biggest order, the littlest order, the longest or shortest machine run. And they can also remember, usually, the most common occurrences, the mode. So you can use these three values-- the min, the max, and the mode in a triangle distribution that gives you a lot of good insights. So triangle distributions let you model something that's nonsymmetric. Remember, the normal is symmetric around the mean. But let's say I have a distribution that has a really long tail. I can use a triangle here to model that fairly well. It requires exceptionally little data, and it's really good in the absence of any data. So in our case, we talked to the person who runs this department, and she says, well, we don't have anything written down, of course. But the most chickens I remember ever being demanded in one day was about 90, and the least I can recall is about 10. But most days demand seems to be about 20. So if you look at this-- minimum of 10, maximum of 90, and a mode of 20-- we can use that to set up our triangle distribution with three parameters-- a min, a max, and a mode. And let's see what we get. So let's derive through some of the properties of the triangle distribution. The notation is just T(a, b,c), where a is the min, b is the max, and c is the mode. So the expected value is simply the sum of those three parameters over 3. And there you can see the equation for the variability to find the standard deviation. Just take this square root of that, of course. And here's what the PDF looks like. So the probability of a value less than a is 0. And the probability of demand greater than b is 0 as well. Now, in between you've got two segments-- from a, the min, to the mode and then from the mode to the max. So for anything with a triangle distribution, you need to know which side of the triangle you're on. So the PDF is simply going to be-- for the left-hand side-- 2 times x minus a over b minus a, c minus a. Now, it looks kind of complicated, but let's look at it for a second. So it's simply going to be the slope, which is the rise-- because I go up to over b minus a-- times the run, c minus a-- so that's the slope-- multiplied by how far I go. So if my x is here, I'm multiplying it by that. So I'm simply multiplying the distance. If this is my x, that distance times the slope. That's all that I'm doing here. It gets kind of complicated with the a's, and b's, and the c's, but it's just triangles. So if my x is between a and c, this is the PDF. And if it's between c and b, this is the PDF. And again, it's just taking triangles. Now, the way I found the height of this triangle is simply the sum of these two areas has to equal 1. And so then that gives me what that height has to be-- 2 over b minus a. So the area of the left-hand side-- and you could figure this out by just multiplying by the slope and finding the area, one half base times height-- is c minus a over b minus a. And the area of the second side, the right-hand side, is b minus c over b minus a. And if you add those together, the c's cancel out, and it's simply going to be equal to 1. Because if you add these together, the c's cancel out, and it's b minus a over b minus a. If I add those together, it equals 1. All right. The CDF is just a cumulative density function. As I go from zero to a, it stays at 0. As I go to c, it increases at certain rate. And then after c, that's where the probability is greater than c minus a over b minus a, which is this area. It changes shape because now it's under this right side triangle. And it finally goes up. The additional difference is this, which is the area of the right-hand side. And so we have over here the CDF for the two sides. If it's less than a, it's 0. Then we see it for if the value x is between a and c, if it's between c and b. And it's obviously equal to 1, the cumulative density function, if it's greater than b. All right. So this is the PDF and the CDF, and we'll use these to solve our problem. But there's two cases that we need to work with. I'll just go through these quickly, because at the end of the day, I just want to show you the resulting formulas that you can use. So if I want to find the probability of stocking out given an inventory level Q-- and let's say first case, the Q is over here. It's between a and c. This also means that the probability of stocking out is going to be greater than the area of this right-hand side, that b minus c over b minus a, because whenever the probability of stock-out is greater than that, then I know my Q is less than the mode, c. So in this case, what am I trying to find? I'm trying to find the probability that my demand x is greater than or equal to Q. That's this red area. This is the probability of stocking out, or the probability of x is greater than or equal to Q, or 1 minus the probability that x is less than or equal to Q. So many different ways to write it-- it says the same thing. And all this is is the CDF that we just saw on the previous page. The only difference is I put Q in instead of x, because I'm doing Q here. Then this green area is the probability that the demand is less than Q, or the cycle service level is something we're going to call it going forward. OK, so I'm just using the CDF here to find this probability of stocking out given a certain level Q. Now, if I'm given a Q and I want to find a quantity such that I hit a certain probability of stock-out, all I do is take that same formula and solve for Q. So this is just a rearranging of terms of this. So it's just solving one way and solving the other way-- very straightforward. Now, expected units short and expected units sold are little more complicated. Remember that if I have the expected number short plus the expected number sold, that's going to be equal to the expected demand. That's just the way the math works. So we know the expected demand, so we only need to solve for one of these two. So depending on where our Q is, one of them is easier to solve for than the other. So for this case, I'm going to first find the expected units sold given a Q. This is the case when Q is between a and c, on the left-hand side of the triangle. OK, so I'm trying to find the expected units sold. So I know for this green area, I'm just going to do an expectation. And for the red area, I know if the demand is greater than that, how many am I going to sell? Q, the amount I have on hand, times the probability that it actually happens. That's the whole probability of that red section. So we know what this is-- the probability that x is greater than Q. We just figured that out. That's the probability of stocking out. So we've already done that. And I'm just going to multiply that by Q. So the probability that I will have more demand than I have chickens to sell is that red area, the probability of stocking out. And how many will I sell in that situation? I'll sell Q, the amount that I actually roasted. Now, the green term, the expected value here, that's a little more complicated. But if you integrate, you come up with this term-- 1/3 times Q minus a squared times 2Q over a, everything over b minus a, c minus a. Now, it looks complicated compared to, say, the normal distribution, but that's only because we have a nice little function in a spreadsheet for the normal distribution. And so the best way to use the triangle distribution is to build these functions in a spreadsheet, and then it's much easier to use. And I've given you a spreadsheet where you already have this put in, but I wanted to make sure you see where it comes from. All right. So this is the first case, where the Q is between the minimum and the mode. The second case is where the Q is between the mode and the maximum. It's on the right-hand side. And this is actually a little easier. So first I want to find the probability of stocking out given that Q, and it's going to be a little bit different. It's just going to be the area of this red triangle. And therefore the area to the left, the green area, is the probability of not stocking out, or the cycle service level. To find the Q, again, I'm just going to use this same equation here, and I'm going to plug in the given probability of stock-out and solve for Q. So they're just the same equation. You're just solving for different variables. Then for the expectation, for expected units short, you see how it's probably easier to figure out the expected units short here on the right-hand side than figuring out the expected units sold. You could go either way, but it's a little easier to find the expected units short. So for this, all I want to do is find the expected values for that red area. So that's going to be the expected value of the demand, x, minus Q-- because I want to subtract that off. It's only the units short that I'm looking for-- times the probability that that happens. So if you take the integration, you get this nice compact form-- 1/3 b minus Q cubed over b minus a times b minus c. So we've gone through this and we've developed the closed form solutions. So now we can use them and solve this problem. So how many chickens are needed for a probability of stock-out less than 10%? Well, I know that that 0.1 is less than that probability of the whole right-hand side of the triangle-- that's the b minus c over b minus a. So therefore, I know I'm on the right-hand side. I know my Q is going to be somewhere in here. Now if 0.1 was greater than that area of the right-hand side, then I know I'd be over in this area. But I'm not. So I know where I am. So I know which formula to use. Q is going to be equal to b minus the square root of the probability of the stock-out times b minus a times b minus c. Plugging that in, I get 66 chickens. So bake 66 to make sure I have a stock-out no more than 10% of the time. What is the probability if I make a certain number of chickens, if I roast them-- and let's solve it for two different numbers, 15 and 30. So for 15, I'm over here, because I'm less than the mode. Actually, this should be Q equals 15. Let me just correct that there. So the probability of stock-out here-- I'm just going to plug it in-- is going to be 97% of the time. Because think about it-- if I have only 15, that's such a low probability. That's only covering 3% of the distribution. So this really isn't to scale here, this 10, this 20, and this 90. So if we roast 30 chickens, on the other hand-- and that, I'm over here-- I use that other equation. And I plug and chug, and I end up with 64% of the time. So you can see, depending on where you are in the triangle, you use a slightly different formula, but it's the same process. OK, expected units sold to short-- let's do it again for 15 or 30 chickens. For the 15, I know I'm on the left-hand side. So I'm going to find the expected units sold, use that equation that we derived, and I get 14.95 sold. Subtracting that off from the expected demand of 40, that gives me 25.05 for the expected units short. Same thing for the other side-- if I roast 30 chickens, then what I have here, I use that other equation. And it gives us the expected value short, which is 12.86. Notice that it's a lot smaller than when I only made 15. And my expected sold is going to be 27.14. And I just found that by subtracting it off from the expected demand of 40. All right. So we went through here quickly, but we followed the exact same process as every other distribution. I used the CDF to find my probability of stocking out, or the Q I needed to hit a certain target level. And then I took expectations to find the expected units short and expected units sold. So all the process is the same for all six distributions, just some of the little math differs just a little bit. OK, you're probably sick of chickens now, so what we're going to do next is just talk about, OK, how do you determine which distribution to use? And then we'll wrap up the whole lesson.
