Week 7, Lesson 1 · Video 2

So what's the difference between deterministic and probabilistic demand? Let's focus on that for a little bit. So on the left, I have the assumption that your demand is deterministic. And on the right, you have stochastic, or random demand. And these are the inventory charts that you should be familiar with. So deterministic demand, previously when we talked about economic order quantity, we made that assumption that demand is deterministic, and the D, or the demand, is constant, and it's known. So therefore, I could chop the orders up based on the EOQ, right? I'm trading off that fixed versus variable cost. And once I know Q star, the order quantity, I know T star, and they're both fixed. And so I receive them a little bit after you have that lead time, whatever that is. And so far, we've assumed that's constant. Later on, we'll see what happens when that can be variable or stochastic, but not yet. And then we get an inventory position, when a thing's placed on order, and then when it actually arrives, and we get that very familiar sawtooth diagram. Now, we're going to say demand is stochastic, so it's random. It's a random variable. Think back to your probability. So we will have to make an assumption on what the shape of that distribution is. Now, there's two ways that I can handle this with orders. I can fix the T and have a different Q each time. So in other words, on my order once a week, the quantity order might differ based on how this demand is changing. Or I could say, you know what? I'm going to order the same quantity-- fixed quantity-- and then when I place the order will change. So there's two ways you can do this. This is called periodic, when the T is fixed, or you have this continuous review, where you're going to have your T change, but your Q stays fixed. Hopefully that makes sense, and we'll spend a lot more time on this in some later lessons. Regardless of how you place your orders, you will receive them after a little bit of lead time, just like normal, and your inventory position could be a little bit different. It looks a little bit like that sawtooth diagram, but look what can happen down here. This is where I have a stockout, so my demand exceeded what I had in supply. So we'll talk about cases where this is back-ordered, where you make sure you still have to fill it, or do you lose the orders? And those two assumptions make a difference in how you plan your inventory. The other thing that this random or stochastic demand makes you do is determine safety stock. So notice for here in the deterministic, I go down to zero each time, or just before, when I have my lead time. But now, because my demand is variable, I need a buffer, or safety stock, and we'll spend a lot of time figuring that out. That's a critical calculation you'll be making for inventory planning. So these are the basic differences, but let me spend a little more time in comparing the deterministic versus stochastic demand, what that means. So suppose my demand is 200 items a week, and it's totally deterministic, just like when we did economic order quantity. In this case, if I look at what's known as the PDF or the probability distribution function, the probability of the demand being less than 200 is 0, and the demand of it being exactly 200 is 100%. Probability of it being above 200, again, is 0. So what does this mean for the cycle service level? Well, depending on how much inventory I have, if I have any inventory below 200 down here, then I will not have enough inventory. I will stock out 100% of the time, and the probability of not stocking out is 0. If I have 200 or more, then my probability of not stocking out now goes to 100%. Hopefully, that makes sense, because if I say the demand is always 200, if I have less than it, I'm always going to stock out. If I have more than it, I'll never stock out. That's easy. Now, let's do the case where your demand on average is 200, but it can range. It can range from 150 to 250. That is, we're saying weakly demand is distributed uniformly between a minimum of 150 and a maximum of 250. And the probability distribution function will look something like this. So it's an equal probability for any of those numbers-- and we'll say this is continuous-- between those ranges. So this is what we're going to be dealing with. And so if I go turn this probability distribution function, I look at it cumulatively, it looks something like this. So the probability of me not stocking out is zero up until that minimum. Then as I have more, my probability of stocking out will increase. The probability that I don't stock out will increase up to 100% when I'm up at 250. So if I have 200 units on hand, I'll run out about half the time. So this top form, the green, which is the probability distribution function, or density function, and then the CDF below is cumulative, these are the two things I'll be using a lot of, because this is what'll tell me the frequency with which I stuck out, and also the expected number of units that I will either be short or have sold. So we want to express this a little more formally, so let me spend one second talking about the three key questions we're going to answer. First, how much inventory on hand do I need so some probability of stockout is less than some target service level? So what this means is graphically, this is my PDF. Now, the probability on the vertical axis, and the demand on the horizontal axis. And so I'm saying, OK, I want to make sure that I stock out no more than 10% of the time. Then, this red area under the curve is 10%, and I want to find, what quantity do I need to make sure that that happens? The second question is kind of the inverse of that. Suppose I have a certain amount of inventory. What probability of stocking out does that give me? You see how they're the same question just asked in the opposite direction? So given a probability of stockout, what's the x? Giving an x, what's my probability of stockout? And then the last question's a little more tricky, and we'll spend more time on this. Given that I have some target level inventory on hand, let's say, what's the expected number of units that I will sell, and what's the expected units that I will be short? And so this is where you will find an expectation, which is just an average or a mean, given some condition. And we'll spend a lot of time on that because it's a critical method that you need to be comfortable with when we talk about inventory planning. OK. So next, we're going to talk about a motivating problem and get started solving it for different distributions.
