Week 2, Lesson 1 · Video 6: Forecasting Quality

So how do I measure the quality of a forecast? Well, we can think of it as a trade-off. And so if I think of my forecast here-- and I have a chart-- and the horizontal axis is the forecast accuracy. So as I increase, this gets more accurate over here, right? And less accurate down here. And you can think of the cost on the vertical axis. So we can think about a cost of errors in forecast. So as I increase my forecast accuracy I expect some cost to go down. These are the costs of having to deal with low-quality. So the rework, removing some items, expediting items. If my demand gets more accurate, then I expect to have less products that become obsolete. I won't have to discount as much. So I can think of a whole bunch of different error forecast costs that are reduced as I improve the quality of the forecast accuracy of my forecast. Now at the other side, that a lot of people don't think about, is there is a cost of having more accurate forecasts. And so some of these things would be the cost of the system used. You'd have a much more expensive system. But even more importantly, there would be a time aspect. It takes more time to produce this forecast. So there's a delay in producing that forecast. There's more time and energy spent in producing that forecast as well. Also, as I get more accurate forecasts and spend more time on this they tend to get more nervous. They jump around. They're not as consistent. And so the idea here is, there are costs of spending too much time-- or an excess amount of time on forecast accuracy. So ideally, what you want to do is be somewhere in the middle. And so you look at this total cost and you say, OK, what's the region that I want to be in in this acceptable region the middle? You don't want to be too excessively over here with your causal models, and you don't be too overly naive in your models. Now, this is just conceptual. This is just a general framework. But I think it's important to remember this. Because we can get caught up in spending so much time to forecast for forecast's sake. And that's the idea of coming up with these really, really intricate, detailed forecasts. And we lose sight of what the cost is of doing that. So let's return back to the idea of what is a quality forecast. How can I determine if a forecast is good? So what we want to end up with is a metric, or a series of metrics. And so let's do an example. And this is a very simple example. So time is on the horizontal axis, and the vertical axis is the demand. And so I have two forecasts. The first forecast is my blue square forecast. And for every time period you can see what they forecasted. So for time period one they forecasted 900. Time period two they forecasted 1,100. Time period three they forecasted demand would be back to 900, and so on. Another forecast that was developed is the green triangle forecast. And they forecasted, or estimated, that demand would be the same, 1,100, for every time period. So these are the two forecasts. So what happened? Here's the actual. These red circles are the actual demand values. So the question is, which forecast is better, the square or the triangle? And so this gets to the heart of the question of, how do you measure the quality of a forecast. Because let's look at it. They both have the same level of accuracy. In other words, each of the forecasts, whether it's the blue square or the green triangle is exactly 100 units off from what the actual demand was. So in each case I'm off by 100 units. So which one is better there? Another way to look at it though is the idea of bias. And so what do I mean by bias? Well, look at the green triangle. It's always above the actual. It's 100 units up. So it's positively biased. My forecast is always higher than the actual demand. If I look at the blue squares, it's not. There is no bias. I'm equally above or below. So the question is, which is better there? I would argue that it's probably better to be not biased, right? Because if I'm overly-biased then I'm always going to over-predict. If I'm negatively-biased I'm always going to under-predict. However, if I came into a situation and I determined which would I rather step into, a situation where I have these blue square forecasts or the green triangles? It's easier to fix a bias. If I go in and see that I'm always over-biased, over-predicting by 20%, that's an easy fix. I reduced it by 20%. And so I'd almost rather step into that to fix it. At the end of the day though we'd like to have an unbiased forecast. So let's look at this in a little bit more detail and define what we mean here when we talk about accuracy and bias. Accuracy is essentially the closeness to actual observations. The bias is, the persistent tendency to either over or under-predict. So we can think of these two terms as different dimensions. And as they get more accurate, I don't necessarily get less biased or more biased. So there are two dimensions in forecasts. So I can put these on a two by two. And so I've got accuracy on the vertical, and the horizontal is bias. So in the best case, I've got a very accurate forecast. I mean, these are my bullseyes, right? All in the bullseye here, right? It's tough to see red on red. And they're not biased, in that they're all pretty much solid in there-- as opposed to something being accurate. Again it's a nice tight spread. But it's biased. It's all positive and a little bit to the right. Then I can think of having something that's not accurate, right? And not biased. Because if I look at this it's evenly spread throughout, but it's not accurate at all. And then down here for this-- whoops, going the wrong way. This last one, it's not that accurate. It's still kind of spread out. But it's biased. Everything's shooting lower left. So you can think about these two metrics, accuracy and bias. And whenever we look at forecasts we want to think about both dimensions. They're not totally fungible. They're different dimensions and you want to capture and look at each one separately.
