Week 8, Lesson 2 · Video 6

Now let's explore the trade offs between Lead Time, the L, and the Review Period, R. We're going to do this by continuing the ShopCo example. And we're going to introduce a different strategy. So so far, the policy for fulfillment has been each store, right, each of these stores, places an order to Hurricane, this is the supplier right here, and then a full truckload-- that's why they have that minimum order quantity, right, they have that certain amount to justify a full truckload coming-- gets delivered. Now they want to explore a different policy, and this is known as a Mixing Center Strategy, that a lot of manufacturers and retailers employ. And the idea is, instead of each store operating independently, ShopCo will allow each store, right, each of the individual stores, to place an order for what items they have to a Regional Distribution Center, an RDC. That RDC will place the combined order to the supplier. Then the supplier will deliver that to the RDC. The RDC will break it out, and allocate it to the stores, and will deliver from the RDC back to the stores. So the idea is that there's an intermediate step. And that the stores now don't operate, or don't discuss and order directly from the supplier, they do it through their RDCs. And so we want to see, is this a better policy? Is It a worse policy? What are the trade offs? So this is what we're going to try and do: So here are the two situations. The existing one, the direct-to-store model, and this Mixing Center Strategy. And we'll explain why it's called a mixing center in a second. So what do we want to do? We want to find the (R,S) Policy for the same store, and we also want to find the expected annual cost of Cycle and Safety Stock. So what do we know? The demand has not changed, right? Because my fulfillment policy will not change the underlying demand. My Cycle Service Level is still there, the Level of Service I'm expecting. But what has changed? Well the Lead Time has changed. And as you would guess, the Lead Time has got longer, because look at this direct-to-store model. It's a straight order to the supplier, and they come directly to me. Now my order is placed here, it goes to the RDC, they have to place it to here, then the truck goes to the RDC, and then eventually it comes and gets delivered to me at the store. So the Lead Time now is longer. And in this case we're saying 10 days. Let's call it a week and a half, just for simplicity. The Review Time though, is shorter, because I can do this more frequently. So it's now two weeks instead of four. Why is that? Well think about the Minimum Order Quantity coming from the supplier. Now to fill up one full truckload from Hurricane, I can use the demand for drills from store a plus store b. In fact, all the stores that are serviced by this RDC, by this Regional Distribution Center, I'm pooling their demand. And I will easily pass that Minimum Order Quantity. And so by doing that, I could order more frequently. Instead of waiting until my demand gets up to that minimum order quantity, I could do it more frequently. Now you can think about it a little further. ShopCo's RDCs, we don't have to have that MOQ to stores, because what gets delivered finally to the store is not just Hurricane drills, but I have some other supplier who's giving material here to these DCs, so this is a mixed truckload. It has some drills, it has some saws, it has all this other material. That's why it's called a mixing center. So this RDC collects the inventory from multiple suppliers, and make it so one truckload can deliver product from multiple vendors, multiple suppliers, to each store. Now we're still specifying that the order still have to be in multiples of 12 drills to fit on pallets. Why we still requiring that? Well, suppose we didn't. Then what would that mean? That would mean Hurricane would still be delivering quantities of 12 to the RDCs, but the people in the RDC would have to open up the pallets, and take out some and move them around. What would that do? We could do it, but it would increase my Lead Time, because that means inventory would have to sit for a little while at the RDC, while they do this other activity. So by maintaining this multiple of 12 requirement, I'm essentially saying that the product is moving through very quickly. It's a cross dock through that Regional Distribution Center. And so by keeping that minimal multiplier, the 12 units, they don't have to break the pallets. Because any time you break a case, break a pallet, or I have to open something, it adds time, and it adds potential for damage. OK. So this is the facts. What are we going to figure out? Well let's go through and find the Ordering Policy. We're going to do our transformations, D times R is the amount that I expect my Cycle Stock to go through for each Replenishment Policy. The only difference here is my Review Period is two weeks now, instead of four. So I come out to be 132 units. Again, that's in multiples of 12. Then I find my Coverage Time, R plus L. That's going to be the two weeks of the Review Period, plus the 1.5 weeks of the Lead Time. So that gives me 3.5 weeks. And so the n is going to be 52 over 3.5, or about 14.86, or about 15 coverage periods per year. So what's interesting is the amount of times that I have to cover for Safety Stock. Those coverage periods increase by about 50% from a little over 10 to almost 15. Now they're going to be shorter though. Instead of being five weeks long, they're only three and a half weeks long. So we'll see what impact that has. So what do on a figure out now? I want to figure out my expected Demand Over Lead plus Review Period. And that comes out to be 229 units. I'm just dividing by that n, 14.86. And the same thing for the standard deviation of Demand Over Lead plus Review Period, that's 400 divided by the square root of that n, 14.86. And that gives me 104 units. So my k has not changed. I'm still going to use the 1.64, because the Cycle Service Level is still the same. So my policy, I want to find my big S, my Order-Up-To-Level, it's going to be the expected Demand Over the Lead, plus Review Period, plus that Safety Factor k, times the standard deviation of Demand Over Lead plus would Review Period. And that gets to me to 400 units. So my policy, from my (R,S) System, is to order up to 400 units every two weeks. So what is my cost of my Cycle Stock? Well, I just look at my DR over 2. It's 132, divided by 2, so it comes out to be $743 per year. And my Safety Stock, I'm just going to multiply through. I have a new standard deviation of Demand Over Lead plus Review Period and that now comes out to be $1,919. OK. Let's compare the two. So this is the first case. We had the direct-to-store model. And here's the Mixing Center Strategy, using the RDCs, or those Regional Distribution Centers. So here on this table, I show the differences between each. So for the direct store, I had a Lead Time of one week, a Review Period of four, and you can see what each of the expected cost for Cycle Stock and Safety Stock would be for a total average Inventory Cost per year of $3,773. For the mixing centers, my Lead Time goes up, but my Review Period goes down. And then you can see my Cycle Stock, my average Safety Stock, and then the average Inventory Cost, which is just the sum of the two. So which is better? Well if I look at average Inventory Costs, I would say that the mixing centers are better, because it gives me about a third less average Inventory Costs. Where's that all coming from? Well, predominantly it's coming from Cycle Stock, because I have more cycles, more Replenishment Cycles, so I'm ordering less each time, so therefore my average Inventory On Hand is going to go down. My Safety Stock goes down as well, but this is kind of a two competing factors. One is, I have a shorter time to cover: Instead of five weeks, I'm only covering three and a half. But then also, I have more frequency. I'm going from 10 coverage periods, to up to 15 for here. So it's a little bit of a trade off, but I still save some about $300 per year. Interestingly though, which do you think the store managers preferred? And it was not the obvious to me, but interviewing them, they actually preferred this model. Why? Because in their mind, this was faster. The Lead Time is only one week. I place an order, it shows up in a week. Now it takes me a week and a half. It's 50% longer to come in. It was a very hard effort to convert and show them what the impact is in terms of Safety Stock, and Cycle Stock, and also get the idea of order frequency. Because what we're really doing here is trading them off, the L and the R. And so what was interesting, the reason why we did this thesis, was to try to come up with a way of showing the benefits of shifting from the direct model to this mixing model. Now there are many other costs in there that we haven't talked about that increase transportation and those other things. And we'll talk about that in a couple more lectures. But what we've done here is we formalize the relationship between the Lead Time L, and the Review Period R. And so if you look at the average Inventory Costs, where it's multiplied by the cost for holding inventory, that's c_e, and this first term DR over 2 is my Cycle Stock. Then I've got my Safety Stock, k times the standard deviation of Demand Over Lead plus Replenishment Time. And then this L times D is my pipeline inventory, my average pipeline inventory. So if I increase my L, we know that's going to increase the pipeline inventory linearly, because it has an L in it. And it's also going to increase my Safety Stock. And that's going to be non-linear. Through everything we showed a the couple videos ago-- It's a non-linear relationship. Well if I increase my R, my Review Period, so make it longer, I can't check as frequently, that also increases the Safety Stock non-linearly, and it affects the Cycle Stock. So these two factors have different impacts. And so when I look at them together, the real thing you're doing is you're trading off replenishment speed, the L, the quickness in response, for frequency, how frequently can I place the orders? And so by using this equation and this relationship, you can determine what the right mix is, because it's really all about the trade off between the two. The speed and the frequency for the L and the R.
