Week 4, Lesson 3 · Video 6

The last type of quantity discount I want to talk about is the One Time Buy discount. And the situation is this. You're already buying stuff from a vendor, let's say, and you're buying in a certain amount, and you've already figured this out. You got your Q*, and you got that familiar saw tooth pattern going. But they come to you and say, you know what, if you order an extra special amount of whatever that is, I'm not saying how much you have to order, but you will get it at a much lower rate. And so the question is, should you take advantage of this offer, this one time deal? And the reason why this is interesting is that this changes the analysis a little bit. One, the unit price is now part of the relevant cost. But also, we're trying to compare two things. We're comparing what is normally done with our regular Q* we've already figured out, to this larger period when I buy Qg. So this changes from an infinite planning horizon to finite. So all that I really care about is what happens over this time frame. And what is this time frame? Well it's simply going to be equal to whatever amount I buy at that discount, Qg, divided by my Demand rate -- because whatever I buy for Qg, it's going to take me D units / time. That's what my demand is going to be. And that's how it gets depleted. So we're going to try to figure out-- is it better to stick with my normal quantity, or go for this Qg amount, and how much should that Qg be. And we're going to do that by comparing what the rate should be, the total cost for those. So we're switching from an infinite planning horizon to something finite. And the time period is again the cycle length that it would take to deplete whatever quantity Qg I decide to get. So let's look at this. How do we figure this out? Well like anything, we're just going to do a comparison. So what's the cost, the total relevant cost, going to be for the normal one, if I stick with what I'm doing now? Well we have to switch to a finite time right? So I have to specify what my cycle time is, and I'm going to multiply that by my previous relevant cost plus my purchase cost. So I know my purchase cost for that time is going to be (c*D) multiplied by the cycle time-- because I'm only lasting this long. So you can see this is cancelled straight out. Really, it's going to be c*Qg, that quantity that I purchase. And then this is the total relevant cost for that same quantity for this amount of time, this cycle time. OK, so we have this. And now I want to find the savings. So this first term is the total relevant cost if I stick with what I'm doing. It's just what I did right up here. So this first term is the cost if I stay with what I'm doing. This second term though, is my total relevant cost for that special price. So what would that be? Well you've got the purchase cost, because I'm figuring out how much I'm going to buy, Qg. So that's the purchase cost. Then I've got the inventory holding cost, and that's this, my cost / item times my inventory holding rate. This Qg/2 is just my average inventory over that time. But I've got to multiply it by the cycle time because I'm finite. I'm with a finite period of time now. It's not assumed infinite, going on forever. And then the last term is the ordering cost. I only order once, so c_t -- it's one order. So this is my total savings equation. What do I want to do? I want to find which Qg maximizes this. I'm maximizing my savings. So to find the extreme point, I take first derivative, set it equal to zero, and I'm going to solve for Qg. And then just to be sure, what I'm going to do is take a second derivative and make sure that it is always less than zero to make sure it's going to be a global maximum. And you can see just taking a derivative of this term is pretty straightforward. You only end up with this term. And you can see from here it's going to be -2*h*c_g/2D, and because h is positive, c_g has to be positive, and D has to be positive-- it's a negative number. Therefore, it will always be a global maximum-- because this will always be less than zero. So all I'm going to do now is solve for this Qg. And the optimal quantity is going to be-- I'm just rearranging here, and I get to this-- the Q* is going to be equal to this relationship. And cleaning up a little bit, I get it down to this form. So how much do I want to buy if I'm given this discount-- well, you can guess it's going to depend on how big of a discount they give you for the cost. And that's going to really dictate it. But let's look at some extreme points. What happens if c_g = c? In other words, the discount is zero. It's not really a good deal, it's the same exact price. What's going to happen? Well this term will go to zero: c - c_g = 0. And then these terms will cancel out. So if the quantity discount price is the same as the normal price, you're going to order as much as you normally do. It doesn't change. But as you see, as c_g gets smaller and smaller-- what's that going to do? Well as c_g gets smaller on the denominator, it's going to make this whole term bigger. And as the c_g gets smaller, the gap gets bigger. And so I'm going to order a little more. So it'll always increase, and it's really a function of what the discount price is going to be.
