Week 10, Lesson 1 · Video 4

OK, so far we've talked about the four fundamental operations in transportation-- the loading, the line haul, vehicle routing, and facility sorting. And then we introduced the underlying economies of scale, scope, and density. You might be asking so what. Why does that matter? Well, it all matters because this helps us define what we call economic modes versus technical modes that we've been talking about so far. So let me explain that a little more. In previous lessons, we talked about different types of modes. And a mode, as we defined before, was a specific technological solution to move stuff. And it consisted of infrastructure, the thing it moved upon, the guideway or the terminals, the thing that actually moved, the vehicle, both the power units and the cargo containers or the vans or the trailers, what the stuff was in, and then some kind of control or governance system. So a combination of these three things defined a mode. And so the examples we did before was trucking that operated on roads. There were tractors and trailers. And it was usually publicly owned. Air went in the air, obviously. It was jets or planes and, again, publicly owned. People don't own the airspace yet. Railroads move on steel rails with engines and rail cars. And they tend to be private. It depends on the country, but a lot of them are privately held, rather than publicly owned. And then ocean or barge-- they operate on the water in ships or boats, and it's public. So you have these four classic, quote, "technical modes," but, when it comes to how we handle them as companies, that's helpful, but it's not the whole story. And that's why I want you to think about different other types of modes, what I'd like to call economic modes, because that's based on how we use them, how we operate, instead of how they operate technically. So let me explain this a little more. And, as you kind of are picking up on it-- we did the one to one, one to many, many to many, kind of understanding how things move in the underlying economies-- you can start seeing that there's really two types of transportation modes, these economic modes. There are those direct core modes that go from one point to another point, pickup at A, deliver at B. And then they've got to go empty to reposition or balance or find another load. Those are the empty lanes, empty miles. And so that's a direct operation. In the bottom left, we have consolidated operations. And this is where there's a lot of pickups on one side to an end-of-line terminal. There might be some sorting there. Then there's a line haul moved to another hub and another line haul move from that hub to another terminal. Some might be going to another end-of-line terminal. And then there's a mirror of that delivery or that pedal run out to all the destinations. So you have a pickup cycle, some line haul moves between sorting hubs, and then a delivery cycle. So your transportation mode is typically one of these two. And you can think of these as taxis and buses. Your transportation is either a taxi cab, going from point to point, and then the cab driver has to worry about picking up another fare, or it's a bus. And that bus is constantly moving in a scheduled route, right? It's moving from here. It's leaving at a certain time, coming back at a certain time. So it's scheduled, and it's consolidated. And it's picking up multiple shipments, people, whatever and consolidating them on the vehicle in a schedule. And that's why you have to have sorting and all of these scheduled runs. So, when you think about transportation, always think, am I talking about a taxi? Or am I talking about a bus? Taxis are direct. Buses are consolidated. So let's look at some examples of this and explain why this might be useful. So what I have here is listed on the left-hand side, the different consolidated type of operations. And, on the right-hand side, I have the direct counterpart. And notice that these are the same, quote, "technical mode." So the first line I have things that operate on roads with rubber wheels, right? They all haul people. I've got buses, and I've got a taxi. You operate them very differently. Yes, they're both using roads. They're both on rubber tires. And they both move people. But you treat them very differently because some are operating consolidated, and some operate direct. The next one down is trucking-- again, on road, rubber tires, tractors. They look technically the same, but less than truckload, LTL, operates very, very differently than full truckload going point to point, even though they look the same as far as trucks. Rail, it's the same way. Railways tend to move through rail yards. They get sorted. It's very complicated moves, but there are also things called unit trains. So these are trains that pick up from one origin and go to one destination, and they don't make stops. You can think of why this would happen-- coal, coal mines, so coal mines going directly to a power plant, lumber going from a lumber yard to where it might be used in manufacturing. So, whenever there is a huge point of origin, a huge demand at another destination, you can use a unit train. Why is that better than the regular railroad? Well, if you have a lot of stuff that needs to move from one location to another, it's best to consolidate it and get that economies on that one move, rather than moving it all the way through the system. Think if you want to move a group of 30 people. Do you want to go onto the mass transit or on to the bus system? Or do you want to hire your own transport, your own bus that's going to move you directly? It's the same principle. What works for passengers works also for freight. Then you've got airlines. Airlines tend to move those consolidated routes, or you can also charter going point to point. Same thing with ocean, you have scheduled runs that go through ports, or you can have tramp services that go point to point, port to port directly, and then parcel with courier. So you have two distinct operations here, consolidated and direct. And then what's interesting is, even in the areas that are consolidated, you have some direct operations. Remember what we said is one of the challenges of the direct moves is to balance. You have to reposition because you end up delivering, and you've got to go move somewhere else to pick up a new load or a person. Well, even in the consolidated operations, you've got some aspects of a direct balance problem. Railcars end up where you don't want them. So you've got to move empties back. Containers, this is a classic problem. When things come into the US from the Pacific Rim, from China, you have a lot of empties that have to move back to reposition and get reloaded-- air igloos, pallets, racks. It's a common problem. So why do we care about all this besides it's just kind of interesting? Well, we looked at the different economies-- scale, scope, and density-- as they affect consolidated and direct, but it actually has implications. So the number of vendors-- you tend to have fewer consolidated mode carriers. In the US, you'll have one parcel carrier. You might have three or four less than truckload carriers. You will have hundreds of vendors out there for direct modes. In fact, in the US, there are maybe three parcel carriers, for example, very consolidated. There are hundreds of thousands of truckload direct carriers-- size of the market. The number that you're going to use-- again, you're going to use few of the consolidated. You're going to have dozens to 100 direct move carriers out there. The design changes focusing on aggregating low volume lanes to focusing on line haul and corridors. You want to help the carrier in the direct modes to achieve their balance and their repositioning because economies of scope is important to them. The procurement, for consolidated, it's generally engineered negotiation. And you want to leverage your scale because you want to go to as few as possible because they have strong economies of scale. Not so much for direct-- for truckload, you're going to do an auction or a bid. And we cover that in another class when we talk about transportation procurement. And then, finally, managing it, you're probably going to, for consolidated, you have fewer there. So you're going to have deeper relations with few versus, for direct, you're going to have a tiered management by exception-- so dramatic differences here between consolidated and direct. And so, for the rest of the lesson, what we're going to do is to solve some problems with the eye to what type of transportation type am I moving. Is it a one to one? Is it a one to many or many to many?
