Week 7 · Recitation · Video 1

Hi, everybody. Welcome to this recitation session on inventory management. My name is Fredrik Eng Larsson. And in this video, we're going to talk about stock outs and single-period models. During the session, I'm going to spend most of the time going through one of the problems that you have in your problem set for this week. I'm going to show you how to think about when you solve it, how to actually solve it. And then we're going to say something about the insights to the solutions. Before we get there though, I wanted to say something about single-period models and what makes something a single-period model and a little bit about how it's different from the EOQ model that you've seen in the past. So as you heard during the lecture, this is a very popular model or framework really. And you can think of it as a stepping stone for much more complicated inventory models. Why is this so useful as a framework? Well, it's useful because it's addressing a fundamental trade-off that you find when you make decisions under uncertainty. It tells us how to trade off the costs of ordering or producing too little of something versus the cost of ordering or making too much of something. So it's balancing that trade-off when we have to make a decision about how much to order or produce without knowing how much we're going to sell. We can think of this in terms of a timeline. So here's a timeline, where we have time on the axis here, and time is progressing as we move towards the right hand side of the screen. And what makes something at one-period model are two characteristics. First of all, we have a well-defined selling season or sales period. So we have some kind of start, and we have some kind of end. And really, what's crucial here is at the end, we can no longer sell the product at full price. So somehow, the product becomes obsolete at the end of the selling season. That is the first key characteristic of a single-period model. The second key characteristic is that during this selling season, we cannot replenish our inventory. So if we're looking at a store, that means we cannot replenish the store shelves during the selling season. And if we're looking at a central warehouse, it means we cannot replenish the inventory of the warehouse during the selling season. When is this the case? Well, maybe more commonly than you would think. And the key, sort of the most common context where this is described and often referred to is when you sell newspapers. And it's sometimes referred to as a newsvendor type of model. For newspapers, you have a very well-defined and a very short selling season, because the newspapers that you have in the morning, they're more or less obsolete-- I mean, before the afternoon even. Somewhere around lunch, you may not be able to sell the newspapers anymore, because the news are old. So you have a very short, very well-defined selling season. And you have to make a decision about how much to replenish for that selling season, because basically once you're standing in the-- the vendor is selling the papers, there's no time or it's not economically feasible to replenish the papers as the day progresses. So that'll be one case. Another case is when you have a long lead time. So you can think of seasonal goods-- sports items or some fashion goods-- that are sold only during a short season of the year. Many times, these goods have to be produced well in advance in big batches somewhere far away. That means that you have a very long lead time from the time you place a production order until you're able to sell the goods. So when this lead time is much longer than the selling season, that also means it's impossible to replenish during the selling season. So these are the two key characteristics that make something a single-period model. And basically, the decision that you're trying to find is the quantity decision. So before the selling season, you have to make a decision about how much to make, how much to order. And you have to make the decision without knowing how much you're going to sell during the selling season. So essentially, it's a model that tells you how to place a bet. You have to make a bet about how much you're going to sell during the selling season. And if you bet more, there's going to be some consequences. If you bet less, there's going to be some other consequences. So this model, like I said, it tells you how to balance that trade-off. And this is what makes these type of models so useful as a framework for more complicated models also. So today, we're going to look at one of those decisions. We make a quantity decision. And you can think of, compared to an EOQ model, where you have a timing decision and you decide when to order and how much to order, now for this type of model, we only make a decision about how much to order. So it's a quantity decision. And today, we're going to look at one context where this is the decision that you have to make. OK, let's get started.
