Week 8, Lesson 2 · Video 7

OK. What are the key points from this lesson? Well there are really three big ones. The first is we looked at the Inventory Performance Metrics as we've done the last two lessons, and we identified two different types-- the service-based, and the cost-based. And we looked at the two service based ones, which are Item Fill Rate, and Cycle Service Level. And for these, we set a standard, a Level of Service, and then we found the k where we would expect to meet that Level of Service in terms of items that I fill, or the number of cycles that I stockout. Then we looked at cost based ones, and for this, we put a dollar value on stocking out, whether it's an event, or whether it's for each item. And once we have that, we add that to the Total Relevant Cost equation, and we find the k that minimizes that Total Relevant Cost. But regardless of which metric we use, we noticed a couple things. One is that it's a non-linear relationship with the Safety Stock. So as I increase my Safety Stock, yes my Cycle Service Level will get better, my Item Fill Rate will get better, my Cost of Stockout Events will go down, Cost of Item Short will go down, but it's not a linear relationship. In fact, as I get better and better, it gets harder and harder to improve. So going from bad to mediocre isn't that hard. Going from good to great is very hard. And going from great to exceptionally great is very hard, because we're going further out that tail in the demand. So going from a Cycle Service Level of say, 70% to 80% isn't that hard, as opposed to going through Cycle Service Level of 85% to 95%. Even though it's just 10% improvement, it's much harder. The other thing we also looked at is when we look at these four different performance metrics, that once I set one of them, once I input one of them, say Fill Rate, that implies the other three. So if I give you a Fill Rate of, I don't know, 95%, that's going to dictate a k. And once I have that k, now my Cycle Service Level is set, my Cost per Item Short is set, my Cost per Stockout Event is set. So the idea is, once I design a policy to one, the other three metrics are established as well. This is very useful because in practice, you're going to be given something, given a Cycle Service Level or a Fill Rate typically, and you can backward calculate what the implied Cost of an Item Short is, what the implied Cost of a Stockout Event is. This allows you to kind of level and see, does it make sense? Do we have too much inventory here? We have a very high Cycle Service Level, what does this imply for the Cost of each Item Short? And so this can help you justify, or maybe a change in an Inventory Policy, because many times companies will have more inventory than they necessarily need. And perhaps by doing an analysis like this, you can figure out, OK, each Item Short is worth way more than it should be, so maybe we want to look at a different practice. Maybe I want to look at expedited transportation, or some other policy, instead of just having a bunch of inventory hanging out to cover that extra demand. So the Inputted versus Implied Metric is a very powerful concept that you can use in practice. And the last thing we did in this lesson, we introduced Periodic Reviews, this (R,S) policy, where every R units of time in my Review Period, I order up to S. Very, very commonly used. And the nice thing is, all the rules are we used for the continuous (s,Q) policies still apply. I use the exact same methods. I only have to make three transformations. Instead of Q, I'm going to order of D times R, which again, they're very equivalent, where Q is the expected Cycle Stock that I will use during a whole Replenishment Cycle, and D times R is the same thing, the expected demand over that entire Review Period. We're going to convert the little s, the Reorder Point, into the big S, the Order-Up-To-Level, and we're going to convert the Lead Time of the continuing system, into Lead Time plus the Review Period, because we have to cover for a longer period of time. And then we also finally showed that changing the Lead Time and the Review Period have different impacts on different parts of the inventory, they impact Cycle Stock, Safety Stock, and Pipeline Stock a little bit differently. So hopefully this gave you a better idea of the trade offs between the different metrics and the different types of policies that we can do. If you have any questions or comments or suggestions, I encourage you to use the discussion.
