Week 7 · Recitation · Video 3

OK, part 1 says the following. Without using formal analysis, would you agree that using average sales in previous semesters, that is, 200 units, as the order quantity is the best policy. So what is being asked here? Well, there is a suggested policy. And that suggestion is to order 200 books. And we want to know, is this a good policy or not? So to get to that, let's first put down the parameters that we have. We have the sales price p, which is how much we going to sell the book for during the selling season. And that's $160. We also have a cost-- that is how much it costs the bookstore to get the book. And that's $100 per book. Also, we have a salvage value again called g. And that salvage value is $60. That's how much we expect to get for a book after the selling season is over. So these are the key parameters to this problem. We have a suggested policy. And basically we want to know what are the consequences of following this policy? How do we get to that? Well, we can compare it to another policy. So let's compare it to a policy where we order 1 unit less. We only look at that last 200th book. Let's compare to a policy where we said Q equal to 199 units. And then we just look at is this last 200th book. Should we order that or not? So we boil this whole decision down to that last book. And then we can get an idea about whether we should order more or order less than 200. So let's see what we get here. Basically, what happens if you look at 200th book, there are really only two options. There are two things that can happen, two cases, two scenarios. Either we are going to sell that 200th book or we're not. Those are two possible cases. So let's look at them separately. What are the consequences of each of these different cases. Let's say the demand is greater than or equal to Q. What does that mean? It means that there's going to be more demand than what we have books. So we're going to sell the book. There's more demand than what we have in stock. We are going to sell everything that we have in stock. What does it mean to order that 200th book? Well, it means we're going to get an extra profit. How much are we going to get in extra profit? We're going to get $160, which is what we sell it for the revenues minus the cost, $100. So we're going to get $60 extra profit for that 200th book. That's one of the cases. The other case is-- so let's look at the case where demand is less than Q. What does that mean? It means that we're not selling that last book. So instead of getting extra profit, what we're getting is having one extra book at the end of the semester sitting in a store that we have to get rid of. How much extra cost does that mean? Well, we have the purchase price of the book or what the store buys it for $100. And then we get some revenue. We get that $60 of salvage value. So we end up with $40 extra cost. Not as good. So really, what does this tell us? This is with that policy. This is the difference between ordering 200 books versus ordering 199 books. Really, buying the 200th book-- by placing that extra book order-- we're making a bet. If that bet is successful, we're going to get $60 in extra profit. If we're missing on that bet, we're going to bring $40 of extra cost. So that is sort of the core decision that we're facing here. We have to make a bet. And there are two different possibilities on what we can end up with. So what we want to know is: is ordering that 200th book a good bet or not? How do we determine if it's a good bet? Well, we look at expectation-- the expected profit of it. So in order to do that, let's think about the probabilities of these two different scenarios. And let's just for sake of argument say that there is a 0.5 probability for each of the scenarios. There's a 50% chance that we're going to sell the book. There's a 50% chance that we're not going to sell the book. What does that mean? It means there's a 0.5 probability of gaining $60. There is a 0.5 probability of incurring $40. So the expectation is positive -- it would make sense to buy that 200th book if there's a 50% probability for each of the scenarios. So let's just think about when there is a 50% chance of selling that book and not selling the book. That's when you're at the mean. At the mean, the probability of selling the book and not selling book are equal. We have the same probability mass on both sides of the mean. So really, what we want to do here-- we want to keep increasing. We want to go a little bit above the mean, because if you look at this, by adding a 201st book, we can have the same argument. We know that this probability over here is going to be slightly lower, because there's a slightly smaller chance of selling that last book if we add one more book. If you add a 202nd book, this is going to be even lower. But we want to keep on adding books until this probability is actually 0.4, because at 0.4 it means that this probability is going to be 0.6. And that means that the expectation is zero. So once we've added that book that gives you these probabilities, adding more books is not going to bring us an additional expected profit that's greater than zero. So this is what we're looking at. And we know that at the mean there's a 50% probability. So we want to keep increasing above the mean until we reach this probability. Now, do we know whether the 200 is the mean or not? That's the question here, because if 200 was the mean demand, it means that we want to go above 200. Let's think about the information that we have. What information do we have? If you look at sales, we can look at the frequency of the sales. We know there's a minimum 100 sales. There's a maximum of 200 sales, the book sales in a season. And there's an average of 200. So if you draw the graph like this, it looks something like that. So we know that the average sales are 200. We just said if the mean demand is also 200, we definitely want to order more than 200 books. So do we know if mean demand is 200 based on this? Well, we have to be careful because sales are not the same as demand. Why? Because sales are censored upwards. What do I mean by that? Well, think of any time in the past where we sold 250 books. Do we know from the information that we sold these 250 books because the demand was exactly 250 or because we just didn't have more than 250 books in our store? We don't know that. So we have to be careful. Just based on information that we have, we could have the demand curve. Like if we look at the PDF of demand, the Probability Density Function of demand, we might have a tail above turned 250. If that is the case, it means that the mean of sales to average sales is less than the mean of the demand. In either case, we know that it's going to be less than or equal. So we set it if mean demand was 200, we wanted to order more than 200. Now, we know that mean demand is at least 200. So we know we want to order at least 200 and then some. So the answer to the question is that we want Q star to be greater than-- we want it to be greater than 200.
