Week 9 · Welcome to Week 9

Welcome back to SC1x. In this week, we're going to wrap up our course. And we're going to talk about transportation, and kind of try to tie everything together. So when you think about freight transportation, I always like to think about networks. Because there's three types and networks-- and there many other ones, but there are three primary networks that you have to operate under. The first is that physical network. And so you can think of this as the on the ground, the actual route that you take, on the ground route. So what highway you take, what port you go through, the physical actual movement on the ground. And that's interesting, but we don't go there more than once. Because once we understand the time and the distance between points on the ground, then we go to an operational network. And this is known as a decision network. And it uses nodes and arcs. And so every node is a decision. So if you're coming inland to a port, that port is a decision point now. It's a node because I can take different ships out from there. When I get to the destination port, that's a node. Because I have different options of going inland. I can take rail. I can take different trucking lines, and so forth. So every node is a decision, and they're connected by these arcs. But the final network that we're really going to spend the most time on is known as a strategic network. And this is where I'm going from my original origin to my final destination. I don't care how many arcs or links there are. I'm going to take what's known as a path view. And so there's going to be a series of potential paths that go between here. And they might be taking different routes. They might be different transportation companies. One might be air, one might be ocean, one might be by donkey, I don't care. At the end of the day, I have these different options, these paths that I can take. How do I differentiate them? Well, each one of them has a cost. It has a certain amount of lead time that it takes. There might be some variability in that lead time. If it's highly variable or whether it's very constant. And there might be some kind of capacity. So there is a limited set of dimensions for each of these options that I care about. I truly don't care if it's a donkey, or it goes by air, or ocean. I care about how much it costs, how long it takes, the variability, and any other restrictions. So what this allows me to do is to abstract the transportation mode and put it into my larger trade-off equation. So let's go back to this equation that we introduced several lessons back, the total cost equation. We said it consists of three main parts. The purchasing costs, the ordering costs, and the holding costs. So remember, the purchasing costs were the costs of each item times that annual demand d. The ordering cost were the costs of each transaction. And the number of orders I'll have is d/q, the demand over my order quantity. And then holding, we looked at this. And we saw that there's different types of inventory that we hold. There's that cycle stock, q/2. Plus, there's safety stock, which is k times sigma ld. Plus, pipeline inventory, l times d, the annual demand times the lead time or the transit time. So this is what we developed for our total cost equation. Now, I'm assuming I'm sending it to a level of service. I could have a stock-out cost here, but let's stay with this. And so the question is, how does transportation affect this? Well, transportation costs something. So if I look at the transportation costs, they can be variable, generally, or fixed, or some combination. So what do they affect? Well, costs really affect my cost of individual item, if it's a cost per each item. If it's a cost per order, like the cost of a full truckload or a full ship, it would go there. And sometimes, I can include it in my cost of excess if I have to pay for it ahead of time. And it's a holding cost because it's capital that has already been allocated. Then, we can also look at time. And when we look at time, we look at both the average time, the expected time, and then also the variability. Where does that fit in? Well, we know the pipeline inventory is affected by time. Because the longer it takes, the longer my inventory is going to be sitting in the ship or in air. But it also affects my safety stock. Because the longer and the more variable my transit time is, that can have an impact on my safety stock. So we looked at cost. We looked at time. If I look at capacity, depending on how much that can hold, that's going to affect my q. Whenever I see a q, it's going to affect that. Because for example, I can only order so much. If I want to ship it by air, I might be limited in my capacity. So each of these three items has an impact on my total cost equation. Let me step back and look at something else. How does forecasting tie-in, just tying everything together? Well, if I have forecasting-- let we just write it here. So however I do my demand forecasting, what does that affect? Any time I see a d, that's my average forecast. So it's going to affect that. But even more so, it's going to affect the safety stock. Why is it going to affect the safety stock? Because remember, when we have that sigma, it's really the root mean square error of the forecast. So now we see how all of these different elements tie together in this total cost equation. They each play a role and they have trade-offs. So using this total cost equation is the way that you can actually determine what the best option is for how you forecast, how you manage your inventory, and manage your transportation. Now for forecasting, we said you have the expected demand, and then you also have some variable variance of demand, that root mean square error. But now when I introduce a different concept where I have variance in the transit time and variance in the demand, this gets tricky. And this is why I made the sigma ld. And we'll talk about this. Because now I have random sums of a random variable and things get really tricky. So we'll show you how to convert those. Because what you'll find out is the average doesn't matter for either the demand or the lead time as much as the variability. Variability kills supply chains. And we'll see how that is and we'll be able to quantify that. So when I look at transportation, one of the big decisions you're going to make is which mode, which carrier. And all you're going to do is use the total cost equation to make trade-offs between the cost, the time, and the capacity. Whether you're making a trade-off between going ocean or air, rail or truck, or carrier A or carrier B, it all comes down to the same equation. So this wraps up the whole course. And hopefully, you see how it all came full circle, and everything ties together in these fundamental equations to be able to make trade-offs between how I forecast, how much inventory to have, and how to move it with transportation. I hope you enjoyed the course. Please, try the quick questions and practice problems. Have fun.
