Week 1, Lesson 2 · Video 7: Handling Uncertainty

So let's talk about how we handle uncertainty. Because there's a lot of uncertainty in supply chains. There's a lot of variability in demand. There's a lot of variability in the lead time or transit time. There's a lot of variability in manufacturing or processing yields as well as time. So there's uncertainty and variability all over the place. So because it occurs in all aspects of the supply chain, we can't just manage or plan to the average or the mean. That's not going to be sufficient. So what we want to do is understand how that varies. How does the demand distribution look? How does the distribution lead time look? We're going to use three families of distributions, generally, throughout this course. The first one is our old friend, the Normal Distribution, we'll use a lot. We'll explain why a little later for each of the cases where we use it. But we should be very familiar with this. It's the symmetric bell-shaped curve where you've got two parameters, mu which is the average, and the sigma which is the standard deviation. So I'll say that I'm normally distributed with a mean of mu and the standard deviation of sigma. This is for a continuous variable that goes from negative infinity to positive infinity. And it's symmetric. It's symmetric around the mean. So that means that there's an even amount on the right side as the left side. The mean, the median, and the mode are all the same value. And this is most commonly used. Whether that's good or bad, we'll talk more about that. Then there's the Log-normal distribution. A little more interesting in that it's skewed right and that the mean and the median are not the same. There's this long tail over here on the right. So it's continuous greater than 0. So that's one real strong attribute of the Log-normal distribution is that you can't have negative values. It's less commonly used. We will start using it later on in the course when we talk about transportation. Because transportation, as anyone who's waited for a plane or a bus knows, you might have this average but you can have some really long wait times. So you get this log-normal distribution. So we'll talk more about this a little later. Then the third distribution we're going to use is the Poisson Distribution. And this has a single parameter, lambda. We'll say things are distributed Poisson with a lambda. The lambda is actually the mean and the variance. And this is discrete. That's why we use it. That's one great benefit of it is that it's a discrete distribution as opposed to continuous. It's also only positive numbers or non-zero, non-negative numbers, rather. So it's greater than equal to 0. That's great for items with low values. So if I have demand of 1.6 items per week, then maybe it matters. And I have low values there, then I want to have a discrete distribution. So we're going to spend most of our time with the Normal and with the Poisson. And later on we'll spend time with Log-normal. But let's talk about the normal and the Poisson next. So the Normal distribution looks something like this. This is the PDF up here in the top right corner. You see it charted here. The mean is this mu. So you see it's symmetric around the mean. The horizontal axis here is the random variable x or x0. And the vertical axis is the probability. That's the fx(x0), the PDF. So again, we said it's distributed normally with a mean of mu and a standard deviation of sigma. So if I pick a point, let's say this value of x, and it's going to be equal to the mu, the average, plus a certain number of standard deviations over to the right, that's k times sigma x. So let's say I pick this point. Then by doing that, I can find two probabilities. The area under the curve to the left of that that's highlighted in that blue hash mark, that's the probability that the random variable x is going to be less than this value, which is mu plus k sigma x. The area under the curve to the right, that's highlighted in red, this is equal to the probability of x is going to be greater than that value, mu plus k sigma x. You can see just by looking at it, the total probability has to be equal to 1. So the area in the red is equal to 1 minus the area in the blue and vice versa. Because they have to add up to 1. This will become critical when we start talking about demand distributions, when we want to know, how big do I make this value to guarantee that, 90% of the time, my demand won't be stocked out. So I can do this-- I can find these values using spreadsheets. So here are the two functions, the norm inverse and norm distribution function. I list the parameters there. But what we typically do is we use the unit normal table. This is where I transform the normal distribution to one that's known as the unit normal or standard normal. That is a normal distribution with a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1. How do I transform it? Well, I create these k values. Some books call them z values. It doesn't matter. Same thing. All I do is I take that random variable, x, subtract off the mean and divide by the standard deviation. That transforms my normal distribution to this unit normal which is down here in the lower right. You can see the PDF and if you want to pause, you look at it. The PDF is just the same as the one in the upper right corner except with the values of mu equals 0 and sigma equals 1. So what's beautiful about this unit normal? It applies to any normal distribution. So I can use this if I pick a value now, let's call it k. This is going to be a value of the random variable that's now u0 for the unit normal. Then the same thing applies. I look at the probability under this unit normal curve. That's what's in the red here. This is the probability that my u, my demand, is greater than equal to that k. To the left, in the blue hash mark, under the area under the curve there, is the probability my demand will be less than that value k. So the beautiful thing about the unit normal, no matter what my distribution is, because this could be anything. This could be 1,000, 600, 200, whatever. These can take an infinite number of forms. I can always transform them to this beautiful unit normal. In spreadsheets, it's the same functions except I use this s for standard. So NORMSINV of the probability will give me that k value. And NORMSDIST, if you put the k value in, will give you the probability. It gives you the cumulative probability in this area in the blue here, the probability that unit normal is less than k. Now I can also use these standard tables, which is really nice. These are attached to this video. So the idea here is, if I pick a k value here, let's say 0.55, then I know that the probability that my u will be less than equal to k is 70.8%. And so you'll use these tables a lot. Hopefully you're familiar with those. Do some of the practice problems. We'll take you through those. But you can use the unit normal tables. That's why using the unit normal is so helpful. The other thing to think about with the normal distribution is how it's shaped. So it's symmetric. So if I look at the mean plus or minus 1 standard deviation, I'm going to capture 68% of that total distribution. If I add 2 standard deviations, that's covering 95.5%, 3 standard deviations, 99.7%. You can see what captures. So the idea is that it's symmetric around the mu. You can see how it's distributed. We'll use this a lot, especially the unit normal. Now let's talk about the Poisson. So again, a single parameter. Essentially, it's the probability that x events occur within a time period. The single parameter, lambda, is both the mean and the variance. Here is the probability mass function. Again, it's a discrete function. So for x0 equals 0, 1, 2, the probability that that event happens, the P_x0 is equal to this equation: e to the negative lambda times lambda to the negative x0 divided by combinatorial of x0. You can see the cumulative distribution as well and simply the summation of all those values up to that value of x0. If I plot these, in here I'm showing that I plotted three of the values where these are all lambdas. The green is a lambda of 2.2. The yellow is a lambda of 4. And the blue is a lambda of 8. If you look at these, what's happening is, as lambda gets bigger, it gets more symmetric. It starts approaching a discrete version of the normal distribution. So I'm going to highlight, now, these green, you see how they fall out and then the blue. You can see that as the lambda gets bigger, it gets a little more symmetric. So in spreadsheets, it's a straight Poisson function where I put in that x0, the value I'm trying to find the probability of, the lambda, which is the mean of the distribution. Then I can either use a flag of 0 or 1. A 0 gives me my PMF, the probability of that value, x0 occurring. The cumulative function F(x0), if I put the flag to 1, that tells me the cumulative probability that my value is less than that x0. Also we give you tables. So the tables are set up similar to the normal tables in that every column is for a lambda. We only did certain lambdas here. We couldn't do every single one. There is no-- sadly, no unit standard Poisson table. Then each row is the cumulative function of a given x0. So for example, let's say I have a distribution where the lambda of the Poisson is 1. I want to find the probability, the cumulative probability, that I will have three or less observations over that time period. So I go from 3 to here. The probability that I'll have 3 or less is going to be equal to 98%, 98.101. So this is telling me my cumulative probability of getting 3 or less observations. So for the same lambda distribution, if I want to see the probability that I get no observation showing up, no demand showing up, that happens 36.78% of the time. OK, so this is the Normal and the Poisson distribution. We put a bunch of problems in the practice session. So get comfortable with these. You should be very familiar and comfortable with both Normal distribution and the Poisson.
