Week 3, Lesson 2 · Video 7

So before we get into the details about new product forecasting, we have to ask the question, what is a new product? Because not all new products are the same. So let's start with one category. This is the category that everyone thinks of when they think of a new product, and this is what's known as a new-to-world product. This is the first of their kind. It creates a new market, a new category. It's radically different from other things that have been out there. So here's an example of that. This was launched in 1979 in Japan and 1980 in the US and around the world, right around then. This is the Sony Walkman. This revolutionized the music industry because it was the first time that people could carry music around with them. It seems quaint today, but this was only 1980, so it hasn't been that long. And this changed-- created a whole new category. Another one that is not high tech that some people might not realize is the 3M Post-it note. This came out, again, in 1980. And so the thing that made this revolutionary, at the time, it was the first adhesive that could stick to paper and then come off. It was a low tack adhesive, and it revolutionized the way that we used the whole idea of a Post-it note. It didn't exist before. So these are new-to-world. But then there's also this other set of category of products that are new-to-company. And these are things where a company creates something, goes into a new market or a category that they've never been in before, but it's not new to the marketplace. And so an interesting example of this is the iPod. Came out in 2001. A lot of people think that Apple invented the portable music player, the digital music player, and they didn't. They'd been on the market since the late 1990s. Granted, this was a great improvement on them, but they entered an established market. But it was the movement that was interesting. It was a new move for Apple, at the time, to get into this industry. So it is new-to-company. Another example of this, again, from Apple, is the iPhone. Came out in 2007. There were already several different smartphones out on the market. So they were, again, entering a new space for them, for Apple. But it wasn't new to the world. But again, it's a different category of a new product. Then we'll look at another set of products, and these are called line extensions. And these are things where you have an existing product and you're going to add something else to it, another version that complements the existing product line. So you're expanding your product line, and you're targeting the same market. So continuing on with Apple examples, this is the 2005 Shuffle, the first one that was introduced, the first generation. Now, this did the same thing, more or less, that an iPod did, which had been out four years earlier. But this extended it to another area, which meant that you could carry it around, it didn't have that bulky screen, so it was very easy and it was much more portable. So this was an extension of the iPod line. And then, if you go on to any consumer packaged good, whether it's for food or any other products, there's a lot of these line extensions. Walk into a grocery store, look at cereals. Every cereal has multiple flavors. Look at the shampoos. The shampoos have different versions. This is Coca-Cola. I counted over 18 different versions of its Coke, and Diet Coke, and Vanilla Coke, and Lemon Coke, and Lime Coke. So you have all these extensions. Each one of these, when I launch one, is a new product. It's different from new-to-world or new-to-company, but it's a new product. It has its own characteristics. It's a line extension. So as we continue on, there's also things that are called product improvements. And this is where you have a product and you introduce a new and improved version. We always know those words. New and improved. And it's different from the line extension, in that it replaces an existing product. So instead of extending the portfolio, it replaces products. And so a classic example of this is New Coke. Came out in 1985, and it was launched to try to move and try to advance Coke's formula to replace the existing one, which had been in place for more than 100 years. Now, of course, it was an epic failure, and within three months, they'd reintroduce the original concoction or formula. It was now branded as Coke Classic or Coca-Cola Classic. But again, the idea of New Coke, it was a product improvement to replace. And then, another example, going continuing on with the Apple theme, these are the first six generations of iPods, from 2001 up here, down to 2007. The first six generations. And you can see how they evolved. And each one is meant to replace the previous one. It's not an extension of the line. This is a replacement. Version 1, version 2, and so forth. So then, the next category is what's known as product repositioning. And this is interesting because this isn't always what you expect. And this is where you take an existing product or service, and you apply it to a new market or to a new purpose. And a good example of this is Bayer Aspirin. This has been around since the early 1860s when it was first pioneered by AG Bayer, and it had always been used as a headache and pain relief type medicine. But in the '70s, it started getting marketed more and more as prevention of heart attacks, clots, and strokes. So it's kind of shifted its purpose. It was not intended for that, it was found out to be that, have that capability, and it's been marketed that way now. Another classic example from 1860 is Arm & Hammer baking soda. Baking soda had always been meant to be used for baking and for certain cleaning, but it got introduced in the '70s again as a deodorizing agent, including toothpaste, laundry detergent. They found it had another purpose, and it's branded that way now, and it's more commonly used that way. So this is where a product is taken from one area or market or purpose and reshifted. It's repositioned. Finally, the last category, which most people don't think of as a new product, is cost reduction. When I have a product out there and I reduce the cost dramatically, it will behave differently, like a new product. And a quick example of this is the iPhone. People don't remember when the first iPhone came out in June 2007. The 8 gigabyte version cost about $599, just under $600. And there was a little bit of an outcry over the price. So within three months, the 5th of September, the price was reduced by a third. And so those people who bought it ahead of time, they'd gone and got caught. But anyway, this is the idea of cost reduction so that the demand characteristics are very different when the price changes. So now we're going to talk next about why we care about this. Why do these different categories matter.
