Week 2, Lesson 3 · Video 3: Exponential Smoothing - Level and Trend I

So let's look at exponential smoothing now with a trend. We're looking for that trend pattern. Remember a trend is just a persistent pattern, either in a positive or a negative direction over time. It can be linear. It can be nonlinear. So let's say I have this case where here the first column is my time periods, t. And xt is simply the demand that actually happened at that time. So if I was going to look at this, this is the actual observations. And if I was going to do a next period forecast, so I'm sitting in time one. What's my forecast for time two and so forth? If I did exponential smoothing with an alpha of 0.3, that's this column the third column. This is what those forecasts would look like. And, again, I just assumed that the very first observation was the forecast just to get the process started. And you can see what happens here is that the exponential smoothing it increases over time. And this is a simple exponential smoothing. But it never catches up. And if I do a moving average of three, that's this fourth column here. And you can check the math here if you want. And all it's doing is taking the average of the three latest observations for the forecast for the next period. You can see that also lags. And you can see it's a little closer. That's just between the alpha and the moving average number that I use would determine which one is closer to that. But in either case, they will never catch up. Moving average and simple exponential smoothing always will lag if there's a trend in the demand data. Because they're only looking at history to find a stationary level. In both cases their explanatory underlying model is that it's a level plus some noise. And all they're trying to do is say, OK, there's some new information. That must be noise. Should I adjust my level? They never proactively look for a trend. And what we need to do is capture a trend or some other kind of factor whether it's a seasonality or something else. So for this model we're going to look at including both level and trend. And this is often referred to as Holt's method, initially developed it. And we're going to use two smoothing constants: Alpha, which we're very comfortable with by now for the level, and beta will be used for the trend. And both alpha has to be between 0 and 1 as does beta- has to be between 0 and 1. So again, we're looking at a level and a trend. So if I look at the underlying model it's a little bit different from what we've seen in the past. I'm saying that the demand in xt is going to be a function of some level plus some trend times the number of time periods t. So b is an incremental increase, or decrease, in time period t times the number of time periods. It's just the slope, right. So just over here. Look at the picture. And then I'm going to add to that some kind of error term. There's always a little bit of randomness or noise. And, again, I'm assuming my error terms are independently and identically distributed with a mean of 0, not biased, and some variance. So what's my forecasting model? Well my forecast, that's the x hat, sitting in time t for time t plus tau. Now this is not necessarily a next period model. It's t plus tau periods in the future. Tau could be 1, 2, 3, whatever. It's going to be equal to my estimate of what the level is sitting in time t plus the estimate of what I think the trend is going to be, that's the b hat sub t, times the number of time periods I'm going forward, tau. So this is the forecasting model. So every period then I'm going to update it. So I have to create these updating procedures or updating formulas. So that's what these formulas are. Now the first one should look very familiar. So both of these, the alpha hat sub t and then b hat sub t, are estimates of the level, that's the a term. And the b term is the trend components at the end of time period t. So when I have a hat t that's my estimate for what the level is knowing what's already happened in time t. So it's at the end of the day, the end of the week, the end the month, whatever. So we would have to forecast, or we have to update, each of those for our forecast. So if I look at the first one for a this should be very familiar to you guys. Because it's the same thing as we did for simple exponential smoothing. It's alpha times the most recent actual observation-- not a forecast, the observation, there's no hat-- plus 1 minus alpha, times this term alpha hat t minus 1 plus beta hat t minus 1. And what is that? That's just the most recent forecast. That's x hat t minus 1t. So it's the same thing. So you can see that this is just the same equation, this first updating procedure for the a term, is the same as what we had for simple exponential smoothing. Now the second term, the b updating, is a little different. But it really follows the same principle. So you've got this beta smoothing factor. And so I'm going to multiply the first term, which is the new information by beta, and the old information by 1 minus beta. So again it's a linear combination. And what's the new information? Well the new trend, how do I know what the new trend is? Well here's one way to think about it. I estimated what I think the new level is, right. I just did that up here. So that minus what my most recent estimate of the level is. So if I'm saying that last time I estimated the level is about 100 units of demand for period. And then this time I estimate those levels 110. So 110 minus 100 means my level went up 10 units in one time period. So that's some new information suggesting I might have a new trend, a trend of 10 units increase in demand for every time period. That's the new information. So for the trend, the new information, is the difference in the most recent level estimates. Now what's the old information? The old information is my most recent estimate for what the trend is, b hat t minus 1. So it's the estimate of what I did in the last period. So in both cases-- it's like double exponential smoothing-- I take the new observation to help me set the level compared to the latest forecast. And for the b term I take what the new estimate of what the trend is going to be, which is just the difference between the most recent levels that I estimated. And I'm going to add one minus beta of the old trend that I had historically. So, again, it's the same thing. It's the new and the old, new and the old. You just make a linear waiting between those. So let's look at a simple example to get the mechanics down. So this is the forecasting model up here at the top. Nothing has changed. We have the two updating procedures one for the level term and the second one for the b term, which is the trend. And let's suppose we're in time 101, time period 101, whatever that is. Let's say I'm doing weeks. And in week 101 that's where I'm sitting. And I've got an alpha of 0.3 and a beta of 0.1. And I want to forecast the demand for t equals 102. So that's sitting here, right. I want to forecast for what the demand is going to be in period 102. So it's the next time period. So how am I going to do that? Let's focus in on this part A first. Then we'll talk about this part B. Well, I just want to go down. And first thing I want to do is estimate the a term. What's my estimate of the level? Because I have some new information. So I'm going to estimate the demand for t equals 102. And so first I'm going to find that estimate of the level in 101. So I want to find this term. How do I do that? Well, I just use my updating procedure. So my updating procedure is going to be, the alpha hat for period 101 is going to be equal to my alpha, 0.3, times my most recent observation, which was in period 101, which is 95, plus 1 minus alpha, which is 0.7, times my most recent forecast, which is just the sum of my most recent estimate for the level and the trend, alpha hat 100 beta b hat 100, which is just 90 and 8.5, which is the same thing as my most recent forecast yesterday for today, 98.5. So what I'm doing is essentially I'm taking a weighted average between the new information, 95, and the old information, which is 98.5. So I know it's going to be somewhere between those two numbers, somewhere between 95-- my new information-- and 98.5. So this is saying that it's probably going to be a little less than 98.5. Makes sense. And so that comes out to be 97.5. Now what do I want to do? I want to find my update, or my estimate, for the b term, for the trend, for period 101. So now I want to find this term. What is that? Well, I'm just going to use this updating formula again. I'm going to use one for the b or the trend term. It's going to be beta, which we gave you was 0.1, right, times the difference in the estimated levels. So my estimated level for 101, I just did that. It was 97.5, right. Just did it right here. And I want to subtract off my most recent estimate, which was in time period 100, which was this 90. So 97.5 minus 90. I see an estimate that the trend is 7.5 units per time period. That's my new estimate, new information coming in. I'm going to add to that 0.9, which is 1 minus beta, times what my old estimate of the trend is, which is this term, right 8.5. So actually, it looks like my trend-- the new information-- is saying my trend is a little lower than what it was previously. So the weighted average of this, 0.1 times 7.5, plus 0.9 times 8.5, is about 8.4. So how do I find the forecast? I just add them together. Right, so add them together. I get 105.9. 97.5, which is my level, plus one period forward-- so 1 times 8.4-- pretty much gives me 105.9. OK, now let's say I'm sitting again in time 101. But I want to forecast for time period 110, which is nine time periods in advance. How do I figure that out? Well this is actually really easy. So what does tau mean? Remember this is my forecasting model up here in the top right. And I'm saying that my forecast sitting in time t for time t plus tau is going to be my most recent estimate of the level plus tau times what?-- My most recent estimate of the trend. So that's simply going to be 97.5-- that's my most recent estimate of the level-- plus 9 periods of time, times my most recent estimate of the slope, or the trend, of 8.4. And that comes out to be 173.1. So hopefully you understand the mechanics of how this all works. And it's really simple. You just use these two updating procedures. And the alpha and the beta are telling you how much of the new information to use and how much of the old information to use.
