Week 10, Lesson 1 · Video 9

All right, let's do an example now with many-to-many. And this is going to be the next-day delivery problem. Let's step back and see we've done so far, though, because you can think about how things get delivered. And so let's suppose I've got this simple case, where I have a distribution center going in this case to four customer locations. And let's suppose the daily demand at each customer location, those little blue circles, is a roughly Q max. And that's the maximum of my delivery van, whatever size that is, the truck. And so if it's right at the max or close to it, then what can I do? I can do directly daily, daily shipments one to one. This is the best, always doing line haul with a fully utilized vehicle, always the best, because you don't have any circuity. You don't have any handling. As long as you have utilization of the vehicle itself and the trailer, it's a good solution. What happens in the second case, my daily demand is a little lower. I can't quite fill a truck. In fact, maybe it's half a truck each time. Well, I can do something like this, right? I could do a one-to-many, which is what we just did. And this is a vehicle routing problem. And so this is another thing that you can do. And just like we did with the [? Clark ?] right in real time, you can have balance between the tour length, the time, or the duration, the capacity of the vehicle, all those kind of things. But there's something else you can do that we haven't talked about, and that's kind of postponement. So I don't do a shipment every day. Let's say my customer's need half a truck every other day. Then why do I-- maybe I-- or they demand half a truck every day. So why don't I wait every other day to make a delivery, right? So I could do a direct shipment every other day. So my service is not as good. They're not getting daily deliveries anymore. But that's another solution. But what if my volume at the customers, the demand goes even lower? Let's say it's a quarter of a truck, right? And so it's really low. I'd have to wait for days if I want to do a full truck. I could do multi stops. That's one option. But there's something else you can do now, and this gets to the many-to-many. I could add a terminal. And so if I add a terminal, it does two things. One is I can bring the big truck a much longer distance, right? See that big, thick line. That could be a full 53-foot trailer. It makes a delivery, and the little vans go the last distance. And so I might have a daily shipment from there, because the little vans can handle the-- it's the right size for them. They can handle a quarter of a full trailer of product. So what I'm doing here is, essentially, this is called a pool point sometimes, as well, where you do a line haul closer to your customers' locations. And then you have a smaller vehicle take it to that last mile. And then you could think, you could also do a one-to-many from that final terminal, a one-to-one, whatever the economics makes sense. But this also allows you to do other things. It's not just that one DC can deliver that terminal. You can have many. So now you see you have many things coming into the terminal, many things going out to different locations. And that's what we want to talk about, the many-to-many problem with a terminal. So what this means is another word for terminals are hubs. So I have a hub. And so what you're doing-- and this is the problem we're going to talk about. It's a very simplified problem. I have five western terminals and five eastern terminals. And I have to go from west to east every day. And then that vehicle has to come back, because I have to do it again the next day. But this is what we have for a direct solution versus a hub and spoke. And we're going to look at these and say, well, which one's better? And so we're going to work through this really quickly to see which one makes sense. So let me give you some numbers. So I need to pick up every day from the terminals. Average distance between east and west is about 500 miles. And, again, this is just a rough approximation. We could be very exact, but I just want to show the concepts here. Average distance from terminals to a hub, once I put a hub in, will be 350 miles. Costs for transportation, a fixed cost of $200, plus $1 a mile. Demand from east to west is normally distributed each day. 15 units, plus or minus 5 is standard deviation. So it's normally distributed. And the break-even for a truckload move is 15 units. If I ship 14, I'm losing money on that. If I ship 16, 15 or higher, I'm good to go. And the capacity is 30. So what we're saying is break-even is like a half-full truck. So quick questions-- for the direct, how often will I lose money based on these assumptions? And then how many trucks do I need? I'll give you a second. Then I'm just going to work through and show you the solution. I'll give you a second. I'll be here when you come back. All right, how often will you lose money? Well, if you look at it, it's pretty straightforward once you see it, right? Each leg, the demand from I to J is normally distributed with a mean of 15 and a standard deviation of 5. So I lose money when I do less than 15. How often does that happen? Half the time, right, on each leg, because that's the mean. It's a normal distribution. So half the time, I'll be below. Half the time, I'll be above. So you can, if you want to check that, you can use a normal table or normal distribution function, Excel. Hopefully, this is pretty obvious to you by now. Therefore, I lose money 50% of the time, so about half of the 25 lanes-- not good. So the question is, to do this, though, in this direct, how many trucks do I need? Well, I need only one truck on a lane, unless the demand goes up to 30, above 30, right? Because that's what I could handle. So how many trucks will I need? Well, I'll only need two trucks on a lane if the demand is greater than 30. So how often does that happen? Well, I can take the probability that x is greater than 30, given the normal distribution, with a mean a 15, standard deviation of 5. And it'll give me that it's 0.1%. I'm pretty comfortable saying, doesn't happen. It's going to be very rare, so I would say, so small, one truck per lane. So now, how many total trucks do you need? Well, that depends. You have to make an assumption here, right? What is their driving time? If I assume that vehicles can move 1,000 miles in a day, which means they drive from one terminal across to the other, and then they come back, then I only need 25 trucks, right? If I assume they go one way, rest, and then come back the next day, then I'll need 50 trucks, right, two per lane? Because one's on-- they're on either sides of the network. And it really depends on what you can do. And you might ask, well, how can I drive 1,000 miles in a day? Team drivers. So you might be able to do it with two drivers in the truck. So we'll work through both assumptions. But this is the direct. So now let's look at the hub solution. Everything's still the same. Everything's 500 miles apart, except for they go through the terminal. It's 350 in each direction, so which makes sense. Going from W1 to E1 directly is 500 miles. W1 to the hub, to E1 is 750-- I mean, 700, rather, 350 plus 350. It has to be greater than the direct distance, obviously. All right, so let's ask the same two questions. How often will I lose money? Well, first I've got to figure something out, because I need to find out what the demand is now for these hubs. It's no longer on each lane, because I have five lanes going into each one of them, right? Because they come from five different potential origins. And so I'm going to combine. So if each lane is distributed normally, with an average of 15 and a standard deviation of 5, if I have 5 of them, then my mean is going to be 5 times 15, right? And my standard deviations is going to be square root of 5 times 5, which is the standard deviation, right? I'm just combining those. And if you're not comfortable with this, look back at the probability stuff we did with inventory. Or go take a look at the C0(x) for probability. You're just combining these distributions. So the demand that each of the hubs is going to be handled is normally distributed, with a mean of 75 and a standard deviation of 11.18. And notice the coefficient of variation is going down because of risk-pooling. Hopefully, this is all making sense to you as we go through the course. So how often will I lose money? Take a shot at this, and start me when you've figured it out. OK, hopefully, you gave it a shot. You look at each leg. And you say, OK, normally distributed 75, with a standard deviation of 11.8. I lose money when x is less than 15. How often will that happen? Never, 0.001%. Again, you're just looking-- you can draw the picture. What's the probability that I'm below that, 15, when the mean is 75? Eh, not much. It's very low. I will not lose money on this. And now, you might say, what if I have 31 units demanded? Well, I can do 15 and 16 on two trucks. So it's not like you have to put 30 on one and 1 on the other, and you're losing money. So it's just, it's the assumption I made there. So how many trucks do you need? Well, you can figure this out. Treat it like an inventory problem. 1 truck if the probability is less than 30. I see what the probability of that is. 2 trucks if it's between 30 and 60. And all I'm doing is finding the conditional probability for each of these, is about 10.2%. I'll need 3 trucks if it's-- the demand is 60 to 90. And I see that's the majority is about almost 80%, 0.796. 4 trucks, 5 trucks, and then I stop, because going above 6 trucks it gets pretty low, low, low probability. So I look at the expected number of trucks, right, because I assume the trucks can go anywhere. And it's going to be 2.99 per day. So, therefore, I've got 5 times 2 times 2.99 or 30. And so that's, you know, the 2.99 is the number of trucks, or 3. I've got 5 lanes. And I've got them on either side of the hub, right? Because the east has to go in, and the west has to go. They have to both come in and go home to the hub. So let's put it all together. And I'm assuming they've returned, right? If you have it so that the vehicles don't have to return, you're just dividing everything by 2. Direct, you could, depending on what your assumption is for how long they drive, either 25 trucks or 50 trucks, it's going to cost you, on average, $30,000, $35,000, depending on that assumption. And for the hub, you only need-- you need 30 trucks per day. But look at you're driving much less, and it's going to be a lower cost, $27,000. So this is just a quick analysis. You have to do a lot more, obviously. I made big, sweeping assumptions on the demand, that they're all uniform. You'd have to consider costs of handling at the hub, fixed costs of running a hub, damage at the hub. You'd have to look at what you can actually do to drive the distances there. But this gives out the essence of the trade-off. And what it allows you to do is make more frequent deliveries of smaller quantities to more locations than direct. That's the real benefit of having terminals or hubs for a many-to-many delivery network.
