Week 9, Lesson 1 · Video 2

OK. Before we talk about planes, trains, ships, and trucks, we need to discuss packaging. In other words, the stuff that our products actually move in. So let's start with packaging. There are generally three levels of packaging for any kind of consumer good, certainly, and that's primary, secondary, and tertiary. And they each serve slightly different purposes. So here I have a display in a retail store of Cup Noodles-- and you can see all the different brands-- and this is what's known as primary packaging. This is the packaging that you, the consumer, will see, and comes in direct contact with the actual product, the noodles in this case. You can see that it's very marketing-oriented. They're all very colorful and they have slogans and everything. So that's the primary purpose-- or one of the major purposes-- of the primary packaging. Then I move to secondary packaging. And here it's more of a discount-type store, retail store, I'm showing. And what I've got here are the secondary ones. I highlighted them. And it's known as a case or a carton. They're still somewhat marketing-oriented, they've got colors and nice little logos on them, but usually it's with a sturdier type of material. Durability comes into effect, so they try to be more durable because they handled a little more. And then we get tertiary. The tertiary packaging is more where we want to a large number of the items together. Typically we move them in what's known as a palette, and we'll talk much more about that in a second. So this whole unit is known as tertiary packaging, and sometimes I will wrap that, and I'll talk more about that in a second. But the packaging level mirrors the type of handling you need in the distribution center or the warehouse. So if you're going to deliver, say, individual cups of soup to someone, or cups of noodles, then you've got to deal with what's known as "eaches", and you're going to be handling these. So someone might want three of this flavor, two of this flavor, and you're packing what's known as "eaches", each individual item. The next level up is where you might order, a store might order, a case or a carton, and then you're dealing here in the secondary packaging. And that's a little easier to handle because, again, as I move from primary, secondary, to tertiary, my durability of the packaging increases and my marketability-- the amount of colorful ink and all that kind of stuff I have-- decreases, because the primary purpose, the major purpose, of these secondary and tertiary packages are to make it easier to move, to prevent damage, those kinds of things. So as I move up, I get to these palletized or unitized loads, and we'll talk more about that in a second. And that's where they sit on top of a pallet, and I can move this whole group of noodles as one by lifting this pallet and moving it. So now let's talk about pallets. With pallets-- this is the basic palette. There's different sizes, the standard size in the United States is about 48 inches by 40 inches. And the European standard pallet is just a little bit shorter, shorter and a little thinner. Not quite as wide. And so I show them in both their standardized dimensions-- inches and centimeters-- and then what their equivalents are. But the pallet, as you can see, is typically wood, it's very sturdy, and it's made to be able to do a couple things. One is so I can slide a forklift with my two forklift handles in here, right, and it's easier to pick up a whole bunch of product at one time. It also consolidate and makes it easier to move, maybe makes it stackable. In fact, what we typically do is we do something that's called unitizing. And what unitizing means, I take these individual packages, and here I've got different cases for UNICEF, and I'm wrapping it with this plastic roll right here. And what happens is, this turns around, this disk turns, and essentially wraps plastic all around the boxes on the container, so when I pick it up they don't fall over. This is known as unitizing. You see the same thing at some airports where they're moving-- they will do this to your luggage. They will wrap it in plastic so you know if it gets tampered with. It makes it a little easier to keep it all together. So pallets are the base of transportation, because you move a pallet at a time. And so the question is, why palettes? Well, this picture kind of says it all. This is of a distribution center for a fast-moving consumer good company. And you can see that all these different palletized loads-- you can see them all up here, I think there's five different levels so they're stacking them pretty high-- and you see they're all sitting on pallets. You can all see the pallets underneath here. Why do they have that? Well it's easier to load, easier to move them as one unit-- that's what's called unitizing-- than each case individually. So you have different types of material-handling equipment. Here you can see a forklift. You can also see kind over here this little hand one. It's got that little handle on it so you can pump it up and down. And then over here you've got one that's really tall that could reach all the way up to these very high shelves. The purpose of pallets are really to make it easier to move and store the items. Sometimes to stack, but if nothing else it makes it easier to move all these cases in one movement rather than individually. But there's a downside to pallets, and this kind of is a harbinger for all transportation modes. And that is that they're never where you want them to be. So remember how we talked about freight transportation is highly directional? So you get full loads in. Well things come on pallets with product, and then at the end of the day, you use the product, you send it to your store or whatever, and then you're stuck with a pallet. What do you do with the pallet? Well if you go to any distribution center or warehouse, you will probably see a stack of pallets sitting in the back. And typically what they will do, if they're still serviceable, they will try to reuse them. There's different policies and practices in what's known as pallet pulling programs, pallet sharing, pallet exchange, where they will give, if a vendor comes in and delivers a bunch of product with pallets, the company will give them a bunch of empty pallets back and you will try to have an exchange. And that works fairly well. But this is what's known as the balance problem. In that, the empty containers, the empty pallets, end up where you don't need them, and where you need the empty pallets to put the new products on, they're not there. And so the whole idea of a misbalance or the empty balancing problem. How do you get these empty pallets back to where I can load new product on them is at the core of most transportation problems. Because the same thing that happens to pallets happens to containers, happens to trailers, happens to train cars, happens to ocean vessels. They're much more likely to be loaded in one direction than the other. You see this every day if you fly. If you go through airport security at pretty much any airport across the world, when you go through security you have these little plastic totes and you've got to take your shoes off or put your computer in them or whatever, and they're never there where you want them. They're always on the other side and someone has to wheel them back around. It's the same problem. Any time you have a container or a pallet or anything like this, you've got a balance problem. And that's the heart of transportation. In fact, there's a company-- and this is not meant to be promotional, it's just an interesting company-- a company called CHEP. When you see these blue pallets, what does that mean? That means it's a CHEP pallet. What CHEP does in different parts of the world is that they try to balance these container-- these pallets, rather, for you. They'll bring them to you if you need them, and they will follow them through the supply chain and redistribute them back. They take care of the balance problem. And so whenever you go to a DC or warehouse, look for those blue pallets. Because that's what they are, they're CHEP pallets. And what they're trying to do is solve this balance problem for a company so you don't have a bunch of empty pallets where you don't need them. So pallets are the basic level, but the next level of containers are the ones we see the most. And these are shipping containers. We've all seen these. These revolutionized global transportation. They've been widely used since the mid to late '50s, and they've really come into their own. So what is a container? It's generally this metal, airtight, stackable and lockable container. And so when we talk about stackable, the nice thing about these is, if you look at the corner units, that's all that they're picked up on. When I pick up a container, I'm not picking it up across the whole way, I'm picking it up at these four points, each of the corners. And so this makes it very easy and standardized so all the loading equipment is common. You don't have to have a specialty type of loading equipment. That makes it so efficient at the port, or wherever you might be loading or unloading these containers. There's typically, in international containers, two sizes-- TEUs and FEUs. TEUs just mean 20-foot equivalent units. FEUs mean 40-foot equivalent units. So a 20- and a 40-foot. It's kind of strange that they're all metric-based, but we call them 20-foot and 40-foot. So you will either talk about a TEU or an FEU or a 20-foot or a 40-foot container. They're the most standard. There are others, but these are the most standard. Let's look at them. So for our TEU, the square-- the volume, rather-- is 33 cubic meters. And as you expect for an FEU, it's double, because it's twice the size. But let's look at the weight. This is the payload. How much can it handle individually? And this differs a little bit, but about 25,000 kilograms. Notice that the FEU does not handle twice as much weight. Why? Because what I've done is I've made this distance longer. And remember, I'm only picking it up at these corners, so any civil engineer will let you know that as I increase this distance and my weight, I create more of a moment in the middle. And so I can't load twice as much weight, because this would simply break in half. And so when I double the volume from a TEU to an FEU, yes, my volume increases-- it doubles-- but my weight, it only increases by about, what, 20 percent. 20 to 30 percent. So the type of product you're shipping, the density kind of dictates whether you do a TEU or an FEU. Now within individual countries, they might have a different type of container. Like in the US, we have what is known as the domestic container. And it's a little bit different. It's a little longer, 53 feet, it's a little wider and a little higher. And why is this? Well it increases the volume that I can handle, and it's really a function of the road system in the US. So we're able to go this long because we have 53-foot trailers on the highway. So it's more efficient sometimes to take international containers coming in, break them apart and restuff them into domestic trailers to then move throughout the US. But we'll talk more about that in later lectures. However, when I load one of these containers-- here's an example-- notice that I'm not using pallets. They're just stacked from the bottom to the top. Why? Well volume's at a premium here, and so it might make sense to-- yes, pallets make it easier to load and unload, but they take up space. So if I had pallets here, I'd have to have this empty pallet's here space if I was stacking them on top of each other. So why ship air? In many cases, I'd rather spend the extra time it takes to load and unload because I'm saving so much money by shipping more product. Containers take many different forms. You can have refrigerated trailers. Here there's a refrigerator unit so I might be shipping something like a fruit or vegetables or ice cream, something that needs to stay at a certain temperature. And I can also do other things. Like this tank, what they've done is they've made it fit within a container specification. Because all you need to do, we're only picking up at these four corner points, so I build this frame and I can now ship-- I believe this is milk. And it can be shipped in this way, using a container. So this covers the idea packaging from primary to secondary to tertiary, as well as pallets and containers.
