Week 8, Lesson 3 · Video 3

Let's dive in between the four walls now and talk about the core functions within a warehouse. So there's always this store function where you keep things, but there's also a set of activities that you need to have on the inbound side as well as the outbound side. So let's go through each of them rather quickly. So the first thing you do is you have to receive. What does this mean? Well, this is really the interface with that facility with the rest of the network. You're scheduling arrivals, you're managing your dock, you're receiving the materials, you're unloading and staging. All that staging means-- it's like groceries, right? When you pull in the car, you might pull everything out of the car if someone has to leave. You don't have to carry everything in at one time. It's the same thing for here. Staging simply means you stage or place the product from the vehicle right next to where you unloaded it, and then you take longer time to put it away. That's called staging. And you inspect for damage, for being short or incomplete orders. There's a lot of things that go on here. It's the handoff from the rest of the network to the facility. And we'll talk about ways to optimize this. So you receive the shipment. Then you want to put things away. This also uses a lot of material handling. You want to verify where you're going to store it, and you're going to move material to that actual location, record the level that's there and the location that it's at. And this is also known as slotting. Slotting is simply determining ahead of time where a certain product will be stored. And there's many different strategies here. There is a system that most companies have called a warehouse management system, or a WMS, that helps with this. The put away is simply taking stuff from that receiving area and putting it away in different areas. And we'll talk what makes sense for where to put it away in a second. The storage function-- this is different from the other functions because it's more about taking up space, consuming space, than taking up labor time. And so this is where you physically hold the product or the material. And you can have multiple forms, and we talked about this-- pallets, cases, eaches. And we'll discuss what impact that has. Then you have the pick function, and this simply means you move items from where it's in storage into an order. You have to verify the inventory that you have on hand, you create shipping documentation, and it really consists of traveling to the different locations where the items are stored, searching for those, extracting them, and putting them together. We'll talk a lot more about the pick function. And then finally, you have the check, pack, and ship. You want to make sure that the order's complete, you want to make sure all the documentation's in place. You place them into packages. You might have some kind of collection or aggregation for common orders. And then you do the reverse of what you did on the receiving end. You schedule trucks for pickups and you load those vehicles out. So you have inbound activities, storage, and outbound activities. If I look at the amount of time that it takes, some people are surprised by this, but picking takes the vast majority. Over half of the labor time within a warehouse is typically consumed by the picking operation. So we'll spend extra time there. So you can see that receiving's about 10%, put away's about 15%. Picking can be 50%, up to 60% or 70% of the time, and then checking, packing, and shipping. Now, there are other things that go on in a warehouse. Sometimes you have things called value-added services. And third party logistics companies, or 3PLs, do this a lot. They want to differentiate. They don't want to just be some place to hold material, they will customize your products. They might put special labeling on it. They might change the packaging. They might do some kitting, which means you're marrying it up with other things. So if you order, say, a laptop and you also want it with a certain power cord, a mouse, a certain keyboard, they'll pack those all together into a kit and send that out. That's called kitting. They might change the pricing. This is also an opportunity to do postponement of different components, where they might change the language on the keyboard for example, or change the color of the case on the smartphone. So these value-added services can occur at a facility at a warehouse. So this is a huge area that a lot of third party companies are taking advantage of. Another function that we haven't talked about are returns. This is something that didn't used to be as big of an issue, and it's becoming a much larger issue for a couple of different reasons. Essentially, it's handling the product in the reverse flow. And this could be because it's damaged, it's expired, it has to be returned, the customer didn't like it, or maybe it's end of life. And so this typically runs about 5% in retail, but for some e-commerce sites, it can be 30% because their whole advantage is that if you don't like it, you can send it back. They make it ease of return. And as you can imagine, this can be incredibly difficult to integrate because it's going in the reverse direction. So the steps-- you can just think about this. There's an inspection, and they need to make a decision. If something comes in, can I repair the item? Should I reuse it? Should I try to refurbish it at all? Do I recycle it, or do I just simply get rid of it? Dispose it? So there's a lot of activity here in returns, as well. We're going to focus, though, in the rest of this lesson in this segment on the receiving, the put away, the storage, the pick, and the check, pack, and ship-- the primary functions. So if we look at flow patterns as things come in, you can think about, even more general, going from a vendor to a customer, there's something called a drop ship or direct. And if you can economically justify a direct movement, it makes the most sense. So if you have a full truckload, a full container, if you can actually economically justify it, it always makes the most sense because you only have two touches. What is a touch? A touch is when someone or a machine touches your inventory. So in this drop shipment, you have a touch at the origin for loading and at the destination for unloading. So if you can do a drop ship or direct, it minimizes the number of touches. Why do we want to minimize touches? Because every time we have an opportunity to touch or handle something, we break it or we have an opportunity for shrinkage or theft. Bad things happen when you touch it. It takes up more time, labor-- all of these things. So you try to minimize those touches if you can. By introducing a DC here or a warehouse, we're naturally increasing the number of touches. So one thing we want to think about in your warehouse is how do I minimize the amount of handling based on the thing that I'm trying to deliver and the size or shape or the form of the product that came in? So let's look at a flow pattern, and I'm going to move from top to bottom right. And so we have receiving, the put away, then the picking, and then the check, pack, and ship. So the simplest way is I receive a pallet, and I cross-dock it, and I send it straight out. Now, what does this do for touches? Well, I add two more touches because now I'm shipping from the vendor, I touch it once when I receive it, right here, and I touch it again when I load it back up. But nothing in between. So there are four touches on a cross-dock. And I'm minimizing. This is usually going to be a pallet in, pallet out. The next level is a power reserve-- kind of a unit loading. I still only receive a pallet and ship a pallet, but it stays there for a little while. So I bring a bunch in, I have to put some away, right? And so I add two more touches here, to this pallet reserve. What does that mean? That means I'm keeping some things in a storage, so I've got to put it back there and I've got to take it back out. So it's a way of holding inventory at the pallet level. But still, not that many touches. The next level down would be case pick. This is where I receive pallets, I put them away in storage, and then when I need them to pick for a case, then I bring them out to the case pick area, bring it back out, and now I have these cases, and I'm picking those into orders. I might have to unitize them before I ship them out. What does that mean? Well, if I order six cases of this, eight cases of that, I'm putting it all on, say, one pallet. I want to put them together so it holds together. And, for example, I want to make it one unit. So I might use something that looks like plastic wrap that keeps it together. And so I'll show some pictures in a little while for that, but you're unitizing. You're making all these individual cases into one unit or one pallet, in general, in most cases, that you can ship out. Why? Because it's easier to handle one big thing than lots of little things, right? And then I go down and I ship. The next flow pattern is eaches. So I have received pallets, into pallet reserve, into cases. Cases go down to eaches, and I have each picks. Now, this is the most time-consuming. And so what happens is we'll talk about different picking strategies here. But you're going to end up picking these eaches. You might have to sort them at the end to put them in the right orders, unitize them, again, so it's easier to handle, and then ship. So you have all these different flow patterns, and the big differentiator here is the amount of handling and touching that occurs. You can guess which one's most expensive and which is at least. Every time I touch something, it gets more expensive. Every time I put something back to storage, it gets more expensive. So when at all possible, you try to have the cross-docking or the unit-- or the drop ship, actually if you can. You want to minimize the handles. So here's a very stylized or activity-based layout of a distribution center. And it's known as a u-shape. Why? Because products are going to come in here, and it's going to go out here. It's a u-shaped flow. So I have receiving in the lower left. And if it looks like it's a cross-dock-- if I can possibly do that-- why would I go all the way back? I'm going keep it up close. And so cross-docking will always be very close to the loading doors. It just makes sense. You don't want to travel any further. But you can see you have the pallet storage, you might have case storage or picking, and you might have eaches picking. And we'll talk about how those operate and what they look like in a little while. But I wanted you understand that different functions within a warehouse, and how they all work together. How I receive dictates how I can put away and how I need to pick. And so all these things need to work together. And so what we'll do next is go into each of these in a little more detail.
