Week 10, Lesson 2 · Video 2

PROFESSOR: All right. In this short video, I want to just kind of wrap up the transportation analysis, kind of give you some ideas of what I was thinking. Your solution might be slightly different, because that's the beautiful thing about case studies. There isn't always one answer. So what was the situation we gave you? You're working for a company called Clean and Green. They manufacture consumer packaged goods, mainly cleaning goods, we'll find out, and they go to retailers, just like you would think, and it's really sustainable products. So they have a niche in the market. The initial problem you're presented with is that the transportation spend is way over budget, and the initial proposed solution was to get rid of the transportation team, because obviously they're spending too much money. Obviously, it's kind of a ridiculous proposal, but this is what happens sometimes. Our cast of characters so far was Ralph Goodman, who is the protagonist of the case, kind of the vice president of supply chain. Jim Tarkov is the COO. He's wanted to fire the transportation team. You know, solve the problem by getting rid of the people. And then we had Janet Dilworth, who's the VP of transportation, who we meet later on. So Ralph went and met with Janet and had some data. And so hopefully he took a look at the data. And remember, what this data is, it's the output or the results of their annual transportation procurement or bidding event. And so we have these number of lanes, which is, what, 27 lanes, coming from two plants in Chicago that are obviously very close to each other. And they're going to a number of different distribution centers. And these DCs are for different customers. You don't quite know. And so you see that some of the DCs are served from both the alpha and the bravo plant. Some are served just from one or the other. And what we have here in column C is the expected or planned weekly volume in full truckloads per week. Column D has the distance in miles, E, F, and G is the lowest cost that came back from the bid, presumably what the winning would be for each of the three modes they considered. Intermodal, truckload, and expedited. And then in columns H, I, J, we have the expected or the planned transit time for each one of the three modes, intermodal, truckload, and expedited. As you can see, expedited is faster than truckload, which is faster than intermodal. And then expedited costs more than truckload, which costs more than intermodal. And this kind of makes sense. These numbers are fairly realistic based on the distances and geographies. So if you look at this, the first thing you might want to do is what I did, is find out, OK, what's your cost going to be. And this is just weekly volume times cost per load for each of the three modes. You can sum them up on the bottom, which would be, what, row 30, I guess. And you can see that, obviously, if I picked all intermodal, it's the cheapest option. But then I might want to look at inventory costs. And this is the piece that we asked you for. And all that I did here is multiplied that weekly volume times the transit time times the value. So that's, let's see, column C times column N times column-- where is the E? Oh, column H, for example, for intermodal. So it's how much I expect to go a week, how many days it will take, the value per day. And that value is simply the holding costs times the value of what's in the trailer. So I gave it to you in days, in dollars per day, which just makes it easier. I could have given you a total actual value and a holding cost, or like, 20% or something per year, and you'd be able to figure it out. This is just easier. So you end up with this weekly expected inventory cost. And lo and behold, you know, it isn't that intermodal is always cheaper. Sometimes it's not, right? And for the inventory, it's almost always the opposite. You're going to pay less in inventory costs for expedited, and then truckload, then intermodal. What you care about is adding them together. So adding them together, we get this, in columns R, S, and T. And I highlighted in green which is the cheapest total cost. And notice that expedited is never the cheapest. Makes sense. But then, in a lot of cases, a truckload is the better option when you consider inventory. And you'll notice it's mainly a better option. It's hard to tell here, but for the bravo plants. And why is that? Well, the bravo plants have a much higher value, right? So $350 per day for the trailer versus $125. You know what's going to favor a faster transportation. So we look at all this and, you know, I look and say, well, Janet, you know, you made these decisions on lowest cost because, as I said in the case, she went with all intermodal, because that's the cheapest. That gives you the lowest total, lowest transportation alone cost if you look at columns K, L, and M, $262,000 per week versus $330,000 or $490,000. But obviously didn't consider the inventory, so that's one thing we want to keep in mind. But the next thing we gave you was data for like, an actual transaction for two of the lanes, from the alpha and bravo plants to this one distribution center, 202. And we gave you this data, and gave you the entry dates and the required date. And remember, how do these get fed in? They get fed in by the order management system, which you usually get populated by the customer service team. And then you have the actual pickup and actual delivery dates. So if you look at this, you might want to notice something right off. And this is what Jim and Ralph noticed. Use a lot of expedited. Column H should be all intermodals, right? If you're going to plan, that's what we're planning for, should have used all intermodal. And so what I did, I created column J and I just wanted to say, OK, if I went to intermodal, what would the cost be. And so I summed up column I, summed up column J, and then looked at the difference. Essentially, I'm spending $12,000 over what my plan would be. My plan, if I went to it, would be $22,841, and that's in cell, what, J-17. Obviously, I didn't make that. And then you have to start asking yourself, well, why. And then I created column K, which, it just looks at the allowed transit time, and that's just the required delivery date minus the entry date, figuring out the rules that I set in the case. And you can see what's happening. They're being forced, transportation is being forced to really deal within expedited frames trying to go at intermodal prices, and they just can't do it. So then the next step I did was column L and said, OK, how many days late would I be if I went intermodal. And that's simply the intermodal time, which is five days, minus what I actually did. And so column L says the number of days I'd be late. And the total for these shipments will be 32 days late if I went normal intermodal time and assumed the intermodal transit times were correct. And what's interesting is, 11 of those are coming in from the alpha plant and 21 are coming in from the bravo plant. And interestingly, if you look at some of the bravo lanes that went by truckload, that's the mode it should have gone anyway, because that's the lowest total cost. So interestingly, by forcing them to go and meet these shorter time frames, they're actually using a mode that minimizes their transportation plus the holding cost. So if I look at column L, I can actually calculate the amount of savings I have by not using intermodal in terms of inventory. And so I multiply everything coming out of the alpha plant by $125 a day, out of the bravo, times $350. And I get, adding them together, about $8,700. So I'm still not saving as much in inventories. I'm spending extra on transportation. But it gives you an idea. It's not that as far off as it looks. So there's a couple things here that you might want to think about and what they might-- challenges they're facing. So my initial takeaways. First, procurement. You know what? I think they're a little too cost-driven. It looks like the CFO, the chief financial officer, was pretty heavily involved here. They pushed for lowest cost. It makes you wonder where the customer service teams, the operations teams, the marketing, sales, were they involved in the process? It didn't look like they were. Second, they ignored inventory costs. They treated everything to be the same. They only looked at their silo. So Janet's team should probably expand that and take into account things coming from different areas, because they might-- time might not be as important. It might be more important for different lanes. And they were overly optimistic on their assumptions of what the lead time would be. They went all intermodal, assuming we'd always have five to seven days' lead time, which is really, really optimistic. Again, it leads me to the suggestion that maybe they're not including everyone in the procurement process they should. Operations. First, the good news. The transportation is keeping the product on time. They're making those level of service requirements. Bad news, they're using expedited. So you can't punish them, right, in operations, because they're making it happen. They're putting out those fires. And so this is something that happens a lot, where you have companies, people are putting out a fire every day instead of figuring out ways to stop the fires from happening. And so that's a real challenge, and that's what this is really illustrating. So you don't want to come down too hard on these people, because they're solving the problems they're faced every day. But they're kind of set up for failure. If they're supposed use intermodal, five day transit, and they're only being given two days, something's going to give, right? They're either going to be always late but be on budget, or they're going to blow their budget but be on time. So it's a no win situation. So what do you do next? Well, you have to figure out which is worse, late arrivals or higher transportation costs. We used some big assumptions in there for the values per day and other things. So you really might want to explore that a little more. Is being a day late, does it matter, right? So maybe you want to use intermodal anyway. Maybe it depends on the product. Maybe it depends on the lane or the customer. The other big thing is, what's causing such short lead times, because that's the big target you want to go after. Why we only given two days to move something, is there something there. So what I would recommend for Ralph to do is start going-- working back up the problem, work upstream. Because remember, the entry date and the required delivery date are populated from the Order Management system, which is fed into by the customer service team. So I would start talking to the customer service teams. That's where I'd go next. All right, so that wraps up the first part of the case. Hope you had fun, and let's see where we go next.
