Week 8, Lesson 2 · Video 4

So far, we've only talked about Continuous Review policies. Now let's introduce Periodic Review policies. And so the difference here, the only assumption we're changing, is the Review Time. So instead of being able to continuously monitor and be able to place a Replenishment Order at any time based on what my Inventory Position is doing, I can only check it periodically. Whether it's once a week, once a month, once a year, I'm set to a series of periods when I can check and place an order. So not only can I not know my inventory at any time, I can only actually place a Replenishment Order during that same period as well. I can't do it in the interim. So we're going to look at two different policies here. In the first one, is an Order-Up-To-Level, or big R big S policy, or an (R,S) policy. And so if I look at my inventory chart here again, and the demand to the typical sawtooth pattern we've been seeing, and then I've got this Order-Up-To-Level, this big S. And what happens, every period for my Replenishment Periods, or my R or Review Period, right, I have the opportunity-- if I want to-- to place an order. And so here it's at, beginning at that R period, I'm going to place an order up to big S, which is the same thing as saying S minus my Inventory Position. It's saying the same thing. You order up to that big S level. And it shows up L units later, that Lead Time. So it shows up here. So my Inventory Position is this line. Then the next R units later, I get to check again. And I check my inventory, I place an order, and it shows up L units later. So I can only place an order every R units of time. And that's the Review Period. And how much do I place for my inventory? I order up to big S. Another policy, that's a little more complicated, is the Hybrid Policy. And it's an (R, s, S) System. And so, let me show you the inventory chart. And again, we have the Inventory Position, and the time, and what we show right here in this dark line actually is the Inventory On Hand. And then I'm going to set two parameters. One is the Reorder Point, the little s, and the big S, the Order-Up-To point. And so the policy is, at each R period, if my Inventory Position is less than or equal to little s, I will place an order up to big S. So in this case, I'm below or right at s, so I'm going to place an order up to the big S. And so my Inventory Position is this line. And then it shows up L units of time later. And then when can I place my next order? Well R units of time later. And I look here, at this point I check my inventory, notice my Inventory Position is above my little s. So I don't place an order. Next time I check is R units time later, I look at my Inventory Position, and I notice that it's below s, so I place an order up to big S. And so my Inventory Position here-- let me just kind of highlight it, I'll just kind of make it squiggly-- is this top line. That's my Inventory Position. Remember it's what I have on hand plus what's on order. And so you can see that this is a much more complicated policy. In fact, it's a very general policy, because you can say what if R is zero, you turn into an (s,Q) system. Or if you set little s equal to zero, it becomes this (R,S) system. So this Hybrid System is really a general case of for most policies. But let's dive in a little deeper. We're going to focus most of our time on this (R,S) system, which is much more common. And so let's look at it again. Again we have the Inventory Position with the Order-Up-To-Level big S. And again we're looking at the horizontal axis as time. And let's think about how is this going to be different from Continuous Review Policies? And specifically, the (s,Q) Policy, where if the Inventory Position drops below s, or is that s, we order Q units. So how much would I order now in this (R,S) system? Well, you can think of the length of my Replenishment Cycle, right? I'm giving it to you. It's R, right? And that's the length of each cycle. So think about this in terms of it's equivalent to the t that we used to use when we looked at EOQ. It's the duration of that Replenishment Cycle. The Review Period and the t are the same thing. So how much demand do I expect to have over this Replenishment Cycle? Well, it's going to be that length of time R, times the demand D. So I can expect to have D times R units of demand during this Review Period, which is my Replenishment Cycle. Remember when we talked about Q: Q is the amount of Cycle Stock I expect to use during my Replenishment Cycle. So when we talked about ordering Q before for an (s,Q) system, that's really equivalent to ordering the expected amount of demand over the Replenishment Period, excuse me, over the whole cycle. And so how much to order for this (R,S) system is going to be D times R. Then we want to ask the question, well how long should the Safety Stock cover for? Because remember in an (s,Q) system, we want to have enough Safety Stock over the Lead Time. That was the critical period. Cover enough so when I place an order until it shows up. I want to make sure I cover that demand, that's where I add my buffer. Well now it gets a little worse, right? Because if I'm here, and I place an order, and it's going to show at L, when's the next time, if I place an order, it will show up? Well, I can't place the order until here, that next Review Period. And if I do it then, it's going to show up L units of time later. So I've actually have to cover not just the L, but I have to cover the Lead Time plus that Review Period. So not only do we now have an idea of how much we need to order, how much we expect that to be, we now realize we have to cover a longer period of time, because I can't be checking it continuously. It's periodic. So I have to wait R units of time, that Review Period, until I can even place another order that won't show up until L units later. These are two key insights that help us solve the Periodic Inventory Policies. So there's a really convenient transformation from this (s,Q) system, which we're very comfortable with, to this periodic (R,S) system. And what we're going to do, we're just going to do a simple transformation. So in the (s,Q) Continuous System, I'm going to take this little s, which is the Reorder Point, and it will become in the big (R,S) system as big S. The Q in the Continuous System is going to become D times R. Remember? This is the amount that we expect over the whole Replenishment Cycle. And the L, which is really the Lead Time, the amount of time I need to cover for my Safety Stock, will now become R plus L, the Review Period plus that Lead Time. So the approach is, I make my transformations, I solve for the (s,Q) using transformations, with whichever of the four metrics we talked about, Cycle Service Level, Item Fill Rate, Cost per Stockout Event, or Cost per Item Short. And then I'm going to determine this final policy, where the Order-Up-To point, big S, is equal to the expected Demand over Lead Time plus Replenishment Cycle, plus the Safety Stock, k times this standard deviation of the Demand over the Lead Time plus Replenishment Cycle. That's why I introduced these terms in notation earlier. So in the next video we'll do an example.
