Week 10, Lesson 1 · Video 7

All right, let's solve the bespoke ice problem. This is a last mile delivery of one to many. So here's the situation as we left it, all the orders that we've collected as of 1:30 PM. We have 10 orders a through j, and you see where their location is on this one kilometer by one kilometer grid. I have to serve them all. Each trike can travel at 12 kilometers per hour, which is the same thing as half a kilometer a minute. I'll be using that just for easy math. Each delivery, the unloading takes five minutes. Trikes can hold five bags of ice. Tours can't exceed 30 minutes. So let's solve it with Clarke Wright. Here's a summary of the algorithm itself. So what we need to do first is figure out the distances. I just went with Euclidean here because it's easy. In real life, you'd use actual road distances. You'll notice what I have here, I only need to use below the diagonal, only half of this table, for distances because it's symmetric. I assume the distance from e to b is the same as b to e. If this is not the case, then we have to use the full metric-- if you have one way streets, for example. But in this case, we're keeping it simple. It's symmetric. Going from a to b is same thing as b to a, same distance. Once I have the distances, I want to calculate the savings. This is what we wend and talked about in the last segment. And the idea, we're trying to figure out if I join two nodes and make it so that they go through the tour and they're connected, how much will my total tour be reduced by? And so, to give you an example, if I look at the savings by adding stops a and h together-- and you can see them on the chart-- how much will I save? Will I save anything? Let's figure it out. It's going to be the cost of going from the dc to a, which is 0.94 kilometers, plus the cost of the dc going to h, 1.06 minus 0.2, which is the new arc going from h to a. So I'm getting rid of two of the deliveries out to those nodes, and I'm adding in one between them. And if that distance is greater than 0, then I'm saving distance. In this case, the tour will go down by 1.74 kilometers. That's the essence of this savings algorithm. So I'm going to take this whole savings matrix, and I'm going to make a list out of it. And each, it's going to be combining, say, nodes b and a, b and c, b and d-- all of that. And I'm going to have the savings, and then, I'm going to sort them. So that's what I have here in this little chart that popped up, the pairs of two nodes being joined and the savings. And I sorted them in descending order from the highest savings to lowest. Because it makes sense to add the one with the biggest bang for the buck, right? I'm going to add the two nodes together that reduce my tour the most. And that's going to be tying together i and j. But let's start by finding the complete initial solution. This is the out-and-back, the really stupid solution, but it's a good starting point that goes from the dc to each delivery and comes back empty. So each one's on its own tour. And that distance is 15.48 kilometers. If I want to start adding in, which one do I want to add first? What nodes do I want to connect? g and i. They're the first one on my savings list. So I got to do two checks when I put them in first capacity. Each one needs one bag of ice. That's fine because 2 is less than 5, so I can fit that. And I have to make sure the time is OK. Remember, I can't exceed 30 minutes. So I get a tour length right now of that one tour connecting the dc to i to g back to dc. I go to the distance table for that. It's 2.61 kilometers. Divide that by 0.2 kilometers per minute, right? I'm going to stay in minutes here. Add two deliveries at 5 minutes each, and it comes up to 23.08 minutes. I'm good to go. That's less than 30. So my total distance by combining those together is going to be reduced from 15.48 to 2.14, so my total distance is now 13.34 kilometers. What do I do next? I look at h and g. Do I combine them? Capacity, h needs 2 bags. 2 plus 2 is 4, less than 5. Good to go. Distance of that new tour is 2.63. Divide by 0.2 kilometers per minute. Add in 3 stop deliveries now for 15 minutes, and I get 28.15. Still less than 30. Good to go. So total distance now becomes 11.3 kilometers. We're on a roll. So now let's keep going. And I'm going to try and do a bunch. And you'll see a bunch in the next ones don't work. So i an h, connecting them together, why not? They're already in the tour. I already found a better way. Bringing them together wouldn't save any more on the tour. g and a. g is not an interior-- g is an interior node, so I can't add it. It doesn't actually work. h an a, same. We can look at that, but we can just by observation quickly see that the number of bags needed for a is 2. I already have 4. Boom. That's over the capacity. It's 6. Don't even bother looking anymore. So you could do even a quick check on this. i and a, it also has the same issues because you're adding 2 bags to it again. g and f, it's an interior. h and f-- and then let me go to the next one-- i and f, honestly it doesn't matter. Because you look at the savings. It's the same. Right? 1.62, so the sequence that you go, it really doesn't matter. But you'll see what happens. I'm going to consider adding i f. And so I look at the capacity, 4 plus 1 is 5. 5 is less than or equal to 5. Good to go. What about the time? Well, the distance of the tour is 2.64, a little longer. Right? And so that's going to add some time. But the real killer, it adds another stop, another five minutes, so that comes up to 33.2. So that's too long. So I violate my time constraint. Capacity is OK. I violate time constraint. And this would have happened whether I added h and f or i and f. Right? It doesn't matter. You see they're kind of in the same there. You would've violated the time. All right. Let's keep going. I pulled the next nine pairings down. So you see, it's starting with f connecting with a. My current total distance is 11.3. I still have a lot of out-and-backs, so I'm going to keep going down. Add f and a in. The capacity there is 1 bag to f, 2 bags to a. Good to go. 3 is less than 5. Look at the total tours. 2.01 plus 2 stops is 20 minutes. Good to go. So now, I'm going to to take off 1.52 off my tour to 9.78 kilometers. And that in orange is that new tour that I'm building. And see, I'm going to keep trying to add to these tours as I go. Let's try with i to d. What do I have there? i to d would do what? That doesn't work because it exceeds the-- anything I add now to that tour will exceed time, right? Anything to the green tour, to the i, to the g or the h, I'm already at my maximum time, so none of those will work. Try f and d. And so f to d, you want to add it to the orange tour. 1 bag plus 3 bags. Good to go. It's 4 bags, so that's less than 5. Time? That total tour would be 2.24 kilometers. Add 3 stops, 26.2. Looks like it's good, so now, I'll reduce my total tour distance from 9.78 minus 1.25 to 8.53 kilometers. So I look like that. So I've got two tours working here, the orange tour and the green tour. And they're both pretty much up there close to time and pretty close to capacity. So let's keep going. If I try and adding any of these other ones, none of these work. And I'll let you figure out why as you go through. You can kind of guess why, say, d to c doesn't work. Because I already have 4 and c needs 2 deliveries. But none of these will work. And we could continue on and on and on. Hopefully, you got the gist of it. And you can work through this, if you want, to see if you come up with a final solution, which is this. So this is the final solution we get out the Clarke Wright algorithm for this problem. And remember, it's just a heuristic. It's not guaranteed optimal. It's a heuristic. It's a good heuristic, but it's still a heuristic. So I end up with this green route that has 4 bags, takes 28 minutes. 2.63 kilometers. The orange route you can see going to d, f, and a. The black route actually just goes to j and back. 3 bags, really short. And then the blue route that goes to c, b, and e. So hopefully, you got a sense of this, how we build this out. And the thing is you'd have to do this very quickly. But this is a very simple algorithm to code. It's greedy. It's very iterative. It's very simple, but it works pretty well. So let me give you some quick insights into solving this problem. Again, the algorithm's quick. It's easy to understand, easy to code and implement. And it works pretty well. It's a heuristic. And you still have to do local routing within those clusters that you've identified. But the nice thing that we demonstrate is you can modify it to include additional constraints. Notice that I included that time constraint, which isn't part of the normal algorithm. But you can have other restrictions like adding a node. Does it have the right loading dock for my vehicle? Yes or no? So you can have other restrictions in that check, that capacity check, the requirements check rather. I did it for both capacity of 5 bags as well as time, had to be less than or equal to 30 minutes. You can add other ones in there. If you get more complicated-- like time windows are a killer-- things that are a lot more restrictive, different equipment sizes, different types of vehicles and matching of facilities, then you might want to move to one of those more exact approach, a mixed integer linear program or some more sophisticated tools. There's a lot of tools out there. Now, as I said at the beginning, last mile routing is becoming even more important. E-commerce is really driving this. And firms are not only doing this more, they're making considerations and looking into how this affects their sustainability efforts. Does it increase fuel usage? Does it increase their carbon footprint? All of these things that are tied to last mile delivery. And there's some really interesting new approaches out there, such as outsourcing or crowdsourcing, having other companies do it, other individuals do it. So there's a lot of interesting activity here trying to understand and solve this problem. Now when you go in somewhere in practice, they're not going to ask you-- I'll be shocked if they ask you to code your own vehicle routing problem, vehicle routing model. There's probably one in there. But the thing is, you need to understand what it's doing at the heart of it. Make sure you understand it. Don't treat it like a black box. And note that in the example we just did, I had actual data. Right? I had specific data on making routing that I was going to implement right away. Sometimes, I want to come up with an idea to plan of what would the future routing cost for-- what would it cost for a situation that don't know the details for? I want to find the estimated cost. And that's a slightly different problem. And that's what we're going to do next.
