Week 9, Lesson 2 · Video 5

So now let's look and see how transit variability impacts total logistics cost. We're going to use our same example-- shipping shoes from Shenzhen. You've seen this a couple times so far. And this will be the last time I use it, I promise. So here's the information. Nothing has changed. I've just added something. What I've added is the standard deviation of the Lead Time or of the transit time for each one of the transport options. So for example, the leg from Port of Los Angeles to Kansas City by the railroad BNSF, I can tell you the container cost is $1,100 per container. On average the transit time is 11 days. And the standard deviation of that transit time is three days. And I did that for each of the transport options. We're making the same decision though. We're trying to find which option provides the lowest total logistics cost. So I'm going to figure this out the same way. I'm going to start with my operational net work. And this shows each of the individual legs and the three pertinent pieces of information-- the cost per container, the transit time, and the standard deviation of that transit time. And I want to turn that into a strategic network where, again, I want those three pieces of information. So how do I find the total end-to-end container cost? I'm just going to simply sum all of the legs that are included in that path. So for this path here, for path one, it's going to be $2,235. The average, or expected transit time, I'm just going to sum up the time-- 2 days plus 20 days plus 5 days through the port plus 11 days, should add up to 38 days. That's the average, or the expected transit time. Then to find the standard deviation, I can't just add the standard deviations of each leg. I can add the variances though. So I'm going to take one day squared plus 2 squared plus 3 squared plus 3 squared. Take the square root of that. And you get 4.8. So the standard deviation of that Path One from Shenzhen to Kansas City going from Yantian to LA to Kansas City is 4.8 days. That's the standard deviation. I do that for each of the paths. So now I have all the information I need. And I can figure out what the total costs are. So if we look at our total cost equation, which is our old friend, we know it well. And I want to say, OK, what will the variability of that demand-over-lead time, how will it affect things? Well, it won't affect my purchase cost. It won't affect my ordering cost. It actually won't affect my Cycle Stock either. And this is just that the variance of that Lead Time. It's not going to affect my pipeline. Why won't it affect my pipeline inventory? Because this is based off of the average, the average Lead Time, or the transit time. The one area it will affect is the Safety Stock. Safety Stock will increase, as my variability of demand over Lead Time increases, because I have to cover more possibility of stocking out. So to figure that out, I take all the information I have. And this for each path. We just figured these are. The expected Lead Time and the standard deviation of that Lead Time. And remember, these are unitless. Then either demand for each day and the standard deviation of that demand for each day. And you notice, it's the same for each of the four options, because it's the same underlying product that we're deciding how to ship. Then I want to figure out that expected demand over Lead Time and the standard deviation of demand over Lead Time. And that will differ for each of the four options. And I'm just going to plug and chug into those equations that we talked about in the previous segments. So the net effect is I'm going to get a new Safety Stock. And I can compare that to the old one. And you can see in every case, it goes up, because there's always some variability. When I have variability, I'm going to need more Safety Stock. The big eye opener, though, is was how much it goes up. Look at how much Option 2 went up. Really dramatically, how much more Safety Stock it means. So let's put this into the bigger picture. And here I've got my four pads. And I've got my purchase cost, which hasn't changed. Ordering cost, Cycle Stock hasn't changed. And, again, pipeline inventory hasn't changed. The only thing that's changed is my Safety Stock. And that naturally affects my total cost. And my logistics cost per shoe. Again, which is just total cost divided by the 4.5 million shoes in annual demand. So the net effect here, my total lowest cost path is 1 at the $2,035 a container, but it comes down to about $1.79 a shoe for the total logistics cost-- that's transit plus inventory. So remember, initially, when we looked at this, we found that option 3 was the lowest transportation cost, because it had the lowest cost per container. Then I looked at inventory without including variability and I found it was the second path at $1.67 a shoe. But when I look at it now and include the variability of transit time, I find that actually this path, the path from Yantian to LA to Kansas City-- Path One-- is the lowest total logistics cost. And that's because now I'm including not only transportation cost and holding cost, but the Safety Stock required to cover that variability. So what we've done here is kind of close the circle and show how transit time, the expected Lead Time, and the variability impacts your total logistics cost.
