Week 1, Lesson 1 · Video 3: Logistics versus Supply Chain

So many times, you'll hear people refer to Logistics and Supply Chains, and a lot of times people have a hard time distinguishing what's the difference. That's because people use the terms very differently and they don't always mean the same thing. So let's go through some definitions that I like. First, the top one is the one that we have here at MIT CTL, the Center for Transportation and Logistics, and that's the whole idea that logistics involves managing the flow-- again, that "flow" word-- of items, information, cash, and ideas through the coordination of supply chain processes and through the strategic addition of place, period, and pattern values. So again, that key word "flow," and then we add the concept of ideas or different concepts to the things that we manage the flow of, and then overcoming what I talked about before, the tyranny of time and place. Stanford has a good definition as well, and they're more focused on those flows again, that supply chain management deals with the management of material, information, and financial flows in a network, which is a keyword, consisting of suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, and customers. So again, it gets the idea that there's a network of different players. And then finally, Fortune has a pretty good definition here. And they call it distribution, logistics, or supply chain management. Whatever name it is, it's the sinuous, gritty, and cumbersome process by which companies move materials, parts, and products to customers. So it's always good to be in a sinuous, gritty, and cumbersome field. Anyway, the whole idea is you're managing these three flows-- the information, the product, and financial-- you have multiple players, and it's going end to end. So what's the difference between when someone says logistics versus supply chains? Well, let's look at some definitions that come from the Council of Supply Chain Management Professionals, which is the leading organization in this space. And what's interesting: their name of the organization has changed over the last 30 years from the National Council of Physical Distribution to the Council of Logistics Management, and now it's the Council of Supply Chain Management Professionals. So it's kind of moved and kind of evolved over time. But they define logistics, and you can read this definition yourself if you want to, but the critical thing is that it's more of the physical flow, and that's how they define the logistics. I think of logistics as managing the movement of the materials primarily. Then you talk about supply chain management, and that's more about encompassing all the activities, from raw sourcing to procurement, and managing channel partners. Channel partners are those different companies that help you manufacture product, distribute product, and sell product to a certain customer. Logistics is a very old word. It has its roots in the military. The Greek adjective "logistikos" means skilled and calculating. And so the first administrative use of the word was in Roman and Byzantine times when there was a military administrative official with the title Logista. Now, the term "Supply Chain Management," on the other hand, is very new. It was coined in 1982 by Keith Oliver, a consultant at Booz Allen Hamilton, and he's credited with coming up with this term in an interview for the Financial Times. But to me, you can talk about logistics as physical flow. Supply chain management is more expansive. What we're going to cover in this class is kind of in between. We're going to start with a lot of logistics basic fundamentals, and we'll see how those apply to those larger supply chain concepts. So that's the basic difference between logistics and supply chain management. But as Fortune said, it's really all about moving product materials from your manufacturer to your end customers.
