Week 7 · Recitation · Video 4

So now we're moving on to a problem where we actually get information about the probability of selling a certain book or not selling a certain book. And part two says the following. Suppose the demand during a semesters actually normally distributed with mean 220 and standard deviation 30, what is the optimal order quantity? So let's draw a graph-- a small graph here. I'm going to put on the x-axis, x, which is demand in this case, and on the y-axis, the probability density function of demand, f of x. We know it's normally distributed. So it's going to look something like this almost bell-shape with a mean of 220. Now the problem is asking, what is the optimal order quantity? So we want to find some q-- q star could be over here or it could be over here. We want to find the q star that is optimal. What does it mean that an order quantity's optimal? Well, it means that it's maximizing our expected profit, so an expectation that is the order quantity that brings us the highest profit. In the lesson, Professor [? Kaplan ?] has showed you one way of doing this-- that was through marginal analysis. And he show that using that analysis, you will find a critical ratio. Based on that critical ratio, you will find the optimal order quantity. Now I want to show you one more way of doing this. There are many different ways you can approach this problem. So I'm going to show you another way of doing this-- and this is using calculus. So I'm going to go through all the steps from the beginning to the end, taking first order conditions to find the maximizer of the expected profit function. This is a slightly more general way of solving it. So in many cases, it might be difficult to just eyeball to find the critical ratio, finding the shortage cost or the excess cost just by looking at the problem. And in that case, calculus might be a good way for you to actually find the problem properly and finding the correct solution to the problem without just eyeballing it. So it's a slightly more general approach, but being more general also means it's more technical. OK? So-- bear with me. OK? I'm going to go through all the steps. I'm going to show you how to do this. And what you're going to see is we end up with exactly with the same solution as in the lecture. So this is just one of many ways of solving the problem. But of course, we will end up with the same solution as any other way to the problem. The first thing we want to do is to find the profit function. So I'm going to call it pi of q. And let's look at two different cases. One is when demand is less than what we have in stock, because it means that we going to have some stock left. And the other one is when demand is greater than what we have in stock, because it means there's some demand we're not going to be able to sell to. What is the profit in these two different cases? We'll start with the first case. Right? How much revenue are we going to get? Well, we going to get p units, the sales price for every book that we sell. How much are we going to sell? Well we're going to sell the demand. We're going to sell d, because the demand is less than what we have in stock. So we're going to sell whatever's demanded. How much costs are we going to have? Well, every book is going to cost a c. And since we ordered q, it means that our total cost is going to be c times q. At the end of the semester-- all right-- since demand is less than q, it means there's going to be some books left at the semester that we never sold. These books will bring in a salvage of g per book. How many books do we have left? Well we have whatever we have in stock minus what the demand was. So this is our profit if we're in this case, where the demand is less than or equal to q. But there's another case. Right? This case over here. What is the profit in these cases? Well, the revenues are no longer driven purely by demand. Right? Because the demand is greater than what we have in stock. And we can never sell more than what we have in stock. So the revenues are going to be p times q. And the costs are going to be c times the order quantity. And do we do have any salvage? No. Right? Because we don't have any stock left. If there was more demand than what we have in stock, then we're going to sell every book that we have. And there's not going to be any books left to salvage at the end of the semester. So what we have is-- for the two different cases-- our profit function is going to look like this. Now we want to move from this to the expectation. And to get the expectation, we need to know the probabilities of each of the different outcomes for these two cases. Right? Because for every case, there are many, many different outcomes. Demand could be anywhere from 0 to q star and then from q star up to infinity. So let's try to find expectation by looking at all these different cases. So we're going to call expectation e of pi of q, the profit function. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to start with the revenues. Then we're going to look at the cost. And then we're going to look at the salvage. All right. So we look at them case by case. The revenues-- we're still going to have a revenue per unit of p. The first case is when demand is from 0 to q. Right? This is the first case over here. That means we look at all the cases from 0 up to what we ordered. Here, the demand, x, is what we're going to sell. Right? We're going to sell the demand. So we're going to sell x. And we want to know the probability of that event. And then we take the integral. And we do the same thing for the next case, where we go from q to infinity. But now, we're no longer going to sell demand. For these cases, we're going to sell q. Right? Because demand is greater than what we have in stock, we're going to sell what we have in stock. We also want to know the probability of that event. Like that. So that'll be the revenues coming in from our book sales. We're still going to have a cost. What is the cost going to be? Well independently of what the outcome is, we're going to have the same cost. That is not the case for salvage. Right? So salvage is going to look different. For salvage, for salvage we're going to have-- only in this case, right? We only have salvage in the first case. That's the case over here. Because otherwise, we're not going to have any books left. So it's only in these cases, we're going to have book left. So we take the integral from 0 to q in here. How much do we salvage? Well we salvage q minus the demand. Then we take the probability. Then we go like that. So this is our expected profit function. Now we can make some observations from this. If you look at this part over here after the p, this part over here, this is really what we expect to sell. That's how much we expect to sell. So we can call this the expected sales. What I'm going to do is I'm going to call the expected sales s of q. It means we can simplify this function a little bit. So calling the expected sales s of q, we still have c times the order quantity. And then we have the salvage. How can we express the salvage? Well let's think about this. How much do we expect to salvage? We expect to salvage whatever we have in stock minus what we expect to sell. Right. Think about it-- whatever we have in stock minus what we expect to sell, that's what we expect to salvage. Makes sense, right? So we take whatever we have in stock, which is q, minus what we expect to sell s of q. So this is a slightly more simple way of writing the expected profit function. You may not be familiar with this, but actually from the lesson, you've seen this. Let's write down a relationship. You know from the lesson that the expected demand-- I'm going to call it mu because it's a normal functional and normal distribution. You know that the expected demand is the expected sales times-- or plus the loss function, the expected units short. So we know that we can express-- or sorry-- we can express-- I want to write the expected sales. We can express that as the expected demand minus the loss function. So if you want, you can plug this in. Right? I'm going to do that. It means we get p over here. And then we take the unit's short, and then we have minus the cost times the order quantity. Here, we have q minus all of this, which is mu, loss function, like that. And if you look at this, if you look at this specific-- I'm going to put an arrow over here so we specify. This is something that you've seen in the lesson. So if you go back and you look at the slides from Professor [? Kaplan's ?] lesson, you will find this expression. All right? Where with the loss function over here are the units short. So this might look familiar to you. And these two are equivalent. Right? These are two ways of expressing the expected profit function. I'm going to work, in this session, I'm going to work with this one. So I'm going to focus on the one where we have it expressed as expected sales. Why am I going to do that? Because I find it slightly easier to take the derivative of this function. Why do I want to take the derivative? Well, because we want to find the first order conditions. We want to maximize the expected profit function. But of course I mean, you can work with this if you want to. You can also take the derivative of this. And those are two different ways of approaching the problem. Whatever you find suitable, these are equivalent. Now, how do we take the derivative? Let's focus on this function over here, the expected sales function, and look at that first. And then we can go back. OK? So let's start with a clean sheet of paper. And remember that the expected sales, it's the integral from 0 to the order quantity. And in this region, we're going to sell the demand. We take the probability of that happening. And then we have the other region, which is from the order quantity to infinity. And in this region, we're going to sell q units, we take times the probability of that outcome, dx. OK. So this is our expected sales. When we want to take the derivative of this, it's problematic that we have two functions in this integral over here. We have x, which is one function in f of x, which is another function. So they're multiplied. In order to make this simpler, we're going to make use is something called integration by parts. Integration by parts says the following. So suppose you have an integral of one function times the derivative of another function, then that is equal to those two functions multiplied minus the integral of the derivative of the first function times the other function. So we're going to use this. How can we use this? Well let's see here. We can identify if this integral that we have over here, let's try to identify it as this one. It means that x is equal to u, and f of x will be v prime. In that case, we can rewrite this in this form. It means that we have first our x times the primitive of this, which is the CDF, the cumulative density function. We have F of x, and that's going to go from-- it's going to be evaluated at q and o. We take minus the integral-- the integral is also from 0 to q. And here in the integral, we have the derivative of u, which would be the derivative of x, which is 1, times the primitive of v prime, which is once again the CDF, dx. All right? So this is this first integral expressed using integration by parts. Now let's just add the last integral over here-- this part over here, which is integral from q to infinity. We have q times the probability for those events, dx. Let's evaluate this part over here. Right? What do we have? We have q, f of q. And then we have minus 0 times f of 0-- and that's zero. Right? So we're left with nothing. Now we take minus-- here it's a one multiplied, so we can take that away-- integral from 0 to q, cumulative density function, dx. So let's now focus on this part over here. What do we have? Well, we have an integral over a probability density function. We can take q out because that's just a constant. We're left with this integral, and this integral goes from q to infinity and is an integral over a PDF. When we have it over a PDF, that is a probability density function. We know that the integral over that kind of function will leave us with the cumulative density function. Right? The cumulative density function tells us the cumulative probabilities-- we add everything up. That's why it's the integral of the PDF. So really, what we're left with is the tail of that distribution. Right? Because we go from q to infinity. So it's 1 minus f of q. It's the last tail all the probability density function. Right? It's all the probability mass-- can draw small graph over here where we have the PDF, the probability density function, and x. We have something like this. We have a q over here. And we want to look at the combined the cumulative mass of everything above q. So everything over here from q to infinity, that is really equal to 1 minus f of q. All right. If we look at this further, we see that q times the cumulative density function is also what we have over here. So we can take this out with this, and we're left with the following. And we're left with q minus the integral from 0 to the order-- sorry-- 0 to the order quantity, over the cumulative density function, f of x, times dx. So this will be our expected sales function. And the derivative of this expected sales-- that is d s of q with respect to q-- is what? Right? We have-- this part over here is just a constant so the derivative is 1. Then we take the derivative of an integral being evaluated at q and 0. It's just the top evaluation that matters. So these kind of cancel out, and we're left with cumulative distribution function at q. So this is the derivative that we were interested in. Right? This is a derivative of the expected sales function. And it's 1 minus the cumulative distribution function at q. Actually, this is sometimes referred to as the complementary CDF, f bar q. And it's really just the top tail of the cumulative distribution function. OK. So now we found the derivative of the expected sales function, it means that we can move on to take the derivative of the expected profit function. So let's do that. Let's start by noting that the expected profit function, e of pi of q, is the revenue per unit, p, times what we expect to sell, given order quantity q. So s of q minus cost per unit times what we order, q, plus the salvage cost per unit times what we expect to salvage. And we expect to salvage the order quantity minus what we expect to sell. So q minus s of q. Now the derivative is what we want to get at. Right? So the derivative of the expected profit function with respect to q, here-- this we just found out. So we take 1. We know it's 1 minus f of q. Over here, it's just q, so we're left with constant, c. Same goes for this-- just a constant, g, minus g-- and this we had from before as being 1 minus f of q. So this is the derivative of the expected profit function. This we want to set it equal to 0 in order to find the extreme point where the profit is maximized or expected profit is maximized. So we can do that by collecting the terms. Let's see what we have-- we have a few constants. We have p. We have a c. And then these will cancel out. So we have also a minus p f of q. And we have a plus g f of q. All of this equal to 0. We can move over p and c. And then we can take these and divide it by-- so what do we get? We get f of q on this side. We have-- we can move over the p and the c. So we have minus p plus c. And then we divide that by g minus p. Now let's just multiply all by minus 1 over minus 1. We see that this is equal to p minus c over p minus g. You recognize this? This is the critical ratio. Right? So we ended up with the critical ratio using the calculus. All the steps that I went through, we end up with the critical ratio that you saw in the lesson. Right? So this-- you can see it for yourself. It's a nice exercise-- look at-- this is the shortage cost over the shortage cost plus the excess cost. So really looking at the critical ratio, and we're saying here, what is the optimal order quantity? Or rather, what is the order quantity that maximizes the expected profit? Well, it's the inverse. Right. So q star is equal to the inverse of the normal distribution function at the critical ratio, p minus c over p minus g. Now remember from before that p, the average-- or the sales price per unit, is 160. The cost is 100. And the salvage is 60. So what we want to take the inverse of is the critical ratio of 0.6. How do we take this inverse? Well, it depends on the distribution. If it's a normal, which is what we have in this case, there are really two different options. One, we standardize it, and we use the standard tables to solve it. Or two, we use some kind of spreadsheet software-- spreadsheet software of choice. Now before we do that, I wanted to point out that this is more general than applying to just a normal distribution. We haven't really used the fact that it's a normal distribution yet. All this-- what this solution is saying here is that optimal order quantity is equal to the inverse of the CDF of the demand distribution evaluated at the critical ratio. And this could be any type of distribution. Right? It could be uniform. It could be triangular. It could be beta. And all it's saying is that we want to take the inverse of that. So in some cases, it means we could use tables. In some cases, we use spreadsheet software. And in some cases, we have a closed form solution, where we could just use algebra in order to find the optimal q. OK. That being said, now it's a normal distribution. So I'm going to open my spreadsheet software of choice. And I'm going to use a function called norm in, as in normal inverse. What it asks for is the probability that it's a critical ratio. Right? It's something between 0 and 1. In this case, it's 0.6. And we're going to put in the mean. I'm going to put in the standard deviation, which is 30. And then we're going to evaluate this. And the function gives us 227.6. So our optimal q-- that is the order quantity that maximizes expected profit-- is 227.6 books. That's it.
