Week 4, Lesson 1 · Video 2

In this lesson, we want to look at the cost involved with managing inventory, and we'll use these to develop a total cost equation. So I want to focus in on what's known as the relevant costs, and these are the costs that are critical to the decision being made and are things that are controllable by us. But I'll explain more about that in a second. There are four basic components to this total cost, or this total relevant costs, and the four stated components are first, the purchase price. That's the unit value, the cost per item when I buy it. Then the next is the ordering cost, and this is also known as the set up cost. This is the cost it takes to actually place an order. Then there's the holding cost, and this is also known as the carrying cost. And it's the cost that it takes me to actually hold inventory, not the value of the inventory itself, but the cost that it takes to actually keep that inventory there. And we'll talk more about each of these, of course, in a second. And the final category is the shortage cost. And these are the costs that are incurred if I stock out or if I don't have enough demand-- or supply, rather, to satisfy demand. And so, we'll look at each of these, and we'll also talk about what makes each of these costs relevant to the decision we're making. And again, the key dimensions of this are one, if it's controllable by us, the decision maker, and if it actually applies to the decision being made. Before we dive into the details, because I'll talk about each one of these four components in greater detail, I want to make a note about nomenclature. Unfortunately, textbooks in this area, whether it's in logistics, inventory management, or supply chain management, they differ in the nomenclature they use to describe these costs as well as many other factors within the supply chain space. So just brace yourself for that. I try to use nomenclature that is common with most of the sources, but there is no one set of common nomenclature. People use different variables for the purchase price, the order price, the holding cost, and all those different things. So let's get started. Let's talk about the first category, the purchase cost. We're going to use the variable c here to annotate this. And the units are going to be dollars per item or dollars per unit. And you can think of what this contains. It's the total cost for acquiring the product. And it's the variable cost, so this is a variable with respect to the quantity. It's the dollars per unit, per item, not a fixed cost. So how do we determine this? Well it depends. If I'm buying it, this product, from some vendor, from some third party, it'll be that purchase price, the amount it costs for me to have that delivered to my location. If I'm making it myself, it's more of a transfer cost, a manufacturing cost, then it's a little trickier. I have to engineer that and figure out what that fully loaded cost is. That takes a little more work to find out what that cost would be. And when is it relevant? Well, the purchase price is relevant if the purchase price differs with the amount or the quantity that I buy or it changes based on the timing that I make that. And so this becomes more important a little later. But the idea of the relevance is when this cost, the purchase cost, becomes relevant to the decision we're trying to make. OK. The next category of cost is the ordering costs. And we're going to use c sub t for this, for the transactional cost, and the units are dollars per order. So whether I order 10 or 100 or 200 of an item, this is that fixed cost per that order. It doesn't change with respect to the volume being ordered. So what does this contain? It's all those costs that it takes to place an order, to receive it, and to process that order. It's all the processing activities, the invoicing, auditing, the labor it takes to do that-- all the different costs it takes to place an order. In manufacturing, this is known as the set up cost for a run, how much time and what the cost is to get a machine ready to go to make a run of a certain item. So how do we determine this number? Well, it's a little tricky. It's not as easy as the purchase price, which is pretty clear and easy to measure. Sometimes I have to do workflow analysis. I have to try to engineer what this cost is. One way that is common is I look over the course of, say, six months to a year, and I sum up all the administrative and other costs like the labor costs and divide by the total orders that are processed with those total costs. And then, as you can see, it's sometimes a tricky number to get. What is that order or fixed set up cost? But you need it and it's relevant whenever it exists and it's nontrivial. And we'll talk more about that in a little while. The third category, though, is the holding costs. And these are the costs that are incurred by having inventory on hand, not necessarily the total cost of the inventory, because I've already paid for that with that purchase price, the first term we talked about, this is the cost that is incurred by actually having the inventory hanging around. So we look at c which is. remember, the unit price for the purchase and I use this h, which you can think of as the holding ratio. And this is essentially a percentage over time, so I might have something that the holding cost is 25% per year, and so then the holding or carrying costs, which we're going to use as c_e, is going to be the price of the item times that h, or that percentage, and that gives me the cost per unit per time. And so what does this contain? This contains a lot of things. It's all those costs that are required to hold inventory. So it could be the storage cost if I have a warehouse. It might be the amount of space I need. If something takes up a lot of space, it's going to cost me more. So I might think, if it's storage, that I want to actually have it as dollars per square foot of each item. Then you can think of this whole service costs. And these are insurance, taxes. And here I think, well, maybe, the holding cost of this will increase as the value of the product increases. And then you have risk costs, where maybe an item gets lost, stolen-- we call that shrinkage-- damage, goes obsolete, it perishes for whatever reason. And for there, I might think, well, maybe it's just dollar per item. And then the fourth category is the capital cost, because every dollar I put in holding inventory is the dollar I'm not using somewhere else. So you can think of it as an investment. And so, in this case, you can think of it as a dollar-for-dollar inventory or the cost of capital. Sometimes it's known as a hurdle rate, that a company needs to have their investment be above a certain rate of return in order to justify it. So out of all these different terms, you also have different units. And why do we end up with just doing it dollar per unit time? Well what we find is this number is typically given to you. It's set by management. And as we'll see later on, this is really a lever that is used to see how much the company values having inventory. And so it's usually set by management, but it's worth seeing if some of these secondary aspects, the warehousing space or these other things dominate, because typically what happens is this hurdle rate or this cost of capital dominates the other factors. So that's why we kind of use those units. And so at the end of the day, the holding cost is essentially that variable cost per item that it costs me to have that item for a certain length of time. And this is relevant whenever I'm holding inventory for any period of time. So that's carrying cost or the holding cost. Let me go into the last or the fourth category, and these are shortage or stock-out costs. And we're going to use c sub s for shortage or stock-out. And the units here-- again these are tough because they could be many different things. It depends how I think my costs accrue. So it could be dollar per unit, so every item that I'm short, I'm going to be charged a certain amount. It could be dollar per unit per time. So maybe if I'm short something, but I'm only stocked-out for a week versus a month, that's going to cost differently. So maybe it's the period of time. Or sometimes, if it doesn't matter how many I stock-out, but if I get an order in and if anything is short from what I ordered, I incurred cost. So there's many different ways to measure stock-out costs or shortage costs. And so what does it contain? Well, a bunch of different things. It depends on how I want to look at it. For backorders, these are those items where customers will wait to get them. So think of high-end smart phones. When the new ones come on, or when books get launched, instead of being published, people will sign up for them and they will order them and they'll be on backorder until the product actually arrives. That's one case. Another case is you have this lost sales, where the customer will just go somewhere else. So if you don't have the toothpaste they're looking for, they'll just go down the street to another store and buy it there. Then there's another cost that could occur where the customer goes away and goes away forever. They get fed up with you not having the product they want, so they end up going somewhere else and forever. It's not just that individual sale you lose, it's that whole stream of revenue from that one customer forever and ever. And then finally it could be a disruption cost, where it holds up the production line. So there could be costs not just for the lost time and labor for those people working on the line. If you have a product that's feeding into a line and it's not there, the whole line might have to go down, but also maybe incurred cost for bringing it back up on line. And so this can be a very huge cost in some manufacturing situations. So you have all these different types of costs, so this is a really squishy and hard number to get. And so one way you can do it is you engineer the cost and you try to figure out, OK, if I'm short, here's exactly what happens. And there's a lot of studies to try to look at this. Typically what people do, what most companies do, is they assume some service level. They say I want to make sure I don't stock out more than, I don't know, 1% of the time for order cycles. Or my fill rate has to be a certain amount. And so you set a service level, and as we'll show later on, that implicitly determines what your cost of a stock-out is. But costs of stock-out are a very tricky thing to do because it's based on the consumer or the customer's behavior. And so you can't really put the price on it unless you know what their behavior's going to be. And when is it relevant? Whenever there's uncertainty in demand, replenishment time, anything where you could potentially stock-out. So these are the total relevant costs, and the next step is to use these to develop different models for inventory policy that we'll now use to develop the different policies that we'll be playing with for the rest of the course.
