Week 2, Lesson 3 · Video 2: Exponential Smoothing - Level

So let's look at simple exponential smoothing. What do we mean by simple exponential smoothing? All we mean is that there's stationary demand. There's no trends or seasonality. So the value of the observation still degrades over time. It is exponential smoothing. And we're going to use some kind of smoothing constant alpha, like we talked about in the last video, where alpha is between 0 and 1. And in practice, you use a value between 0.1 and 0.3. But we'll talk more about that later on. But the underlying model should look very familiar to you. It's a stationary demand. So we assume that there's a level and there's some kind of noise, some kind of error term. So you bounce around this level term, a. And then if I look at the error, we're still assuming that it's distributed identically and independently with a mean of 0, so it's not biased, in variance, whatever that is. And so my forecasting model is going to be exactly what we talked about in the last video. My forecast-- that's the x hat-- sitting in time t for time t plus 1 is going to be equal to alpha-- that's smoothing factor-- times my most recent observation of actual demand, xt, times 1 minus alpha times the forecast from my most recent past period to this period, x hat t minus 1 to t. Now, this is a next period kind of forecast. So this is forecasting from this month to next month, from this week to next week, this year to next year. Whatever your periods are. And again, alpha goes between 0 and 1. So we'll get used to this. And again, this is a trade off of new information. That xt is the newest information that we have. And the x hat t minus 1t is the encapsulated of all my most recent forecasts that has all of my historical data. But we can think about this equation in a little bit different way. We can think of it also as error correcting. And this is kind of cool. So here's the same equation. And what I'm going to do here is I'm just going to separate the terms for alpha and collect them. So all I'm going to do is collect the terms that have an alpha in them. And you'll see that's going to be x hat t for t plus 1 is equal to x hat t minus 1t plus alpha times xt, the most recent observation, minus x hat t minus 1t, which is my most recent forecast for this period. Another term for this equation right here is the error term. That's the definition of the error, what actually happened minus what we predicted would happen. So you can think of this same exponential smoothing term for simple smoothing as an error correction. My prediction, my forecast sitting in time t for time t plus 1-- so sitting today, looking forecasting for tomorrow-- is going to be equal to my x hat t minus 1t, what I forecasted yesterday for today, plus some kind of alpha of the error term. So I put some fraction of the error term, whether it's positive or negative. I'm going to use that to adjust my most recent forecast. And these are equivalent. So this equation is identical to this equation. I like this equation more, because it shows you the trade off between new and old. But it's equivalent to this, where what we're doing really is correcting some of the error term, the most recent error term. OK, so how do we actually do this in mechanics? So here's an example. I have 10 observations here. And these are next period forecast. So let me explain the chart. So here for this row is observation 1, time period 1. What actually happened was 109 units of demand showed up. And if I'm using exponential smoothing, for here I just assume that the first observation was the forecast, just to keep this started simple. So let's look at the 10th observation. So down here at time period 10, and 96 unit showed up. And my prediction for the next period with an alpha of 0.7 is that the next period-- so sitting in time 10 for predicting for time 11, t plus 1-- I predict 96 units of demand. If my alpha is 0.1, then my forecast sitting in time 10 for time 11 is 102.6. So hopefully this table makes sense. So these columns here for the alphas underneath, it's the forecast for the next period sitting in that period that it's the row in. So for example, if I want to calculate the forecast for period 6 sitting in period 5 with an alpha of 0.3, what would that be? So I'm in this time period, row five. And so we know that the forecast sitting in time 5 for period 6 is going to be alpha, which this case we said was 0.3, times what actually happened in 5, which was 104 plus 1 minus alpha, which is pretty much 0.7, plus what we predicted would happen in 5 while sitting in time 4. So what is that? Well, for alpha equals 0.3, it's this-- 100.3. And that's here. So what we're doing is taking a weighted average, a linear combination if you will, between two numbers-- 104, the most recent observation, and 100.3. And based on our smoothing factor, it's going to determine how close we are to 104 or how close we are to 100.3. And the average of that is 101.4. So if I look at this graphically, here is the actual observations for the different time periods. So in time period 1, I had 109 units. Time period 2, it went down to 92 and so forth. So this is just the second column here in the chart. And then if I had a smoothing factor of 0.7, what's that saying? That's saying 70% of the data I'm going to take as the new observation. So that's pretty nervous. It's not going to be exactly like a naive forecast, but it's close. So you can see it reacts very strongly when there's an uptick in demand here, say in period 5, you see the forecast jumps up. So things move. Now as opposed to that, if I stretch this out, and now this is last line is alpha equals 0.1. And you can see it's much calmer. It's more like the cumulative. And so you can see here from this chart what the effect is of the different alphas. And essentially, it's what we've been talking about-- one makes it more nervous. So if my alpha is big, it's going to be much more responsive to any change. That's that yellowish kind of mustard colored one. The dark one is saying kind of just the opposite. It's down to a much smoother, or more calm, forecast. And we'll talk more about which one makes sense in different situations a little later.
