Week 2, Lesson 2 · Video 4: Moving Average

So we talked about the cumulative forecast where all the history matters and is treated equally. Then we talked about the naive forecast, where you only use the latest history, the latest observation-- only yesterday matters. And you might think, well, these are extreme, there must be some kind of compromise. And there is. It's the moving average forecast. And this can actually be seen not just as a compromise between the two. It's a way to generalize. So what does this model look like? What we do is we don't include all the data necessarily. We only include the last M, whatever M is. M is a variable. We include that many observations. And this is, like I said, a compromise between the cumulative and the naive. So let's look at it. The underlying model is still that stationary model, where the demand for time in time period t is going to be equal to some level, plus the error term, some variance around it, some noise. And that variance, that noise or the error, is going to have a mean of 0 and a variance of some variance. But the big thing is that mean is 0, so we're not biased. So the forecasting model for this, it looks complicated, but it's really straightforward. So my forecast for demand sitting in time period t for time period t plus 1 is going to be equal to the sum of the demand over the last m periods, divided by m, the number of periods I'm including. So this term, I equals t plus 1 minus m, simply goes back m periods. So if I'm in time period six and my m is 4, then I'm going to go back six, five, four, three, two. So it's just going back that many time periods. So here I have the same data we've been looking at. The first column is the time period. The second column is the demand. And then I've got in the red the naive forecast. And we showed how to do that. In the green on the other end of the table is the cumulative forecast. And again, in those columns, in these last five columns, this is the forecasted demand made at time period t for the next time period t plus 1. So for these five columns on the right, we're all looking at the next period demand forecast. So let's plot these. And here, I put the actual. And again, I connected the actual domains with the line. And here's the naive. And again, it's just a shift of one. You can see it's very volatile, very noisy. And now let's see what the M2 is. The M2 is the moving average of two periods. So the moving average that the forecast made at time two for the next period, time three, we're going to say is 100.5, which is just the average of 109 plus 92. And so that's going to be right here. And then the next period, the forecast made at time three for time period four, is going to be 95, which is just the average of these two. So you're just making the moving average. You're averaging the last m periods. In this case, it's m2. And then you can see the same thing happens for M4 and M6. Two things to point out-- one is I can't start the M2 forecast until two periods after. I need two periods to have something to average. Same thing for the four-- the M4, I need four periods to be able to do something. M6, I need six periods. So one of the things is, as I use more history in my forecast model, I need more history. For the naive model, I don't need any history. I just need what happened yesterday. That's the only history I need. For these other models, I need two periods, four periods, or six periods, because that's how long it takes to average. The other thing is, notice what happens. They approach the cumulative model. They get calmer and calmer as I increase the number of periods. So as M gets bigger, I get calmer. Versus the naive, which is essentially equivalent to what? M equals 1. So at M equals 1, it's very volatile. As M approaches t, it starts getting very calm. So this is why it's a trade off. And in fact, it's really just a generalization. If I plug in M is equal to t, all the data, I will have the cumulative model. If I plug in M is equal to 1, I will be the naive model. So it's something in between is that compromise. But you can model either of them just by picking the appropriate M. So how big should M be? Well, if it's too small, then you're going to be overly responsive to noise. You're going to be very nervous. You're going to have that very volatile forecast, the naive forecast. And if it's too big, you're going to miss step changes. You're going to average out all that noise. So there's no one definite always use this value of M. People typically use practical value. So if I'm looking at months of forecast, I might do it over six sometimes three. So you're averaging over the quarter. Or you might average, if it's a long period, over a 12 month moving average. So it really depends. You want to see what the purpose is. If the purpose is to see a long term trend, you can go for a longer M. If it's used for other purposes, you might want to shorten it. But there's no hard and fast rules of what your M should be. There's no optimal value. Two points, though-- or the main point I want to make before we move on is to note that this moving average model will always lag any change. And this is for two reasons. The first is we're still assuming that's stationary demand. Remember, we're still assuming that the model, the forecast, is going to be equal to a level plus some kind of noise. And so I'm assuming this level. So if something happens, a trend or a step change, if something moves, I'm going to miss that, because I'm assuming a stationary demand. I'm going to assume that that's just some noise. And the larger the M, the longer that lag is going to be, the longer it'll take for that change, that step change, that trend to show up. And we'll talk more about this. And this is also a function because we've got that stationary demand.
