Week 7, Lesson 1 · Video 9

OK, now let's solve the problem assuming a normal distribution. So we're still cooking chickens. And let's say our demand over the last 180 days looked like this. And if I put into histogram, which is always a good thing to do, I look at this and say, you know what? That looks like a normal curve. So what is a normal curve? What does a normal distribution look like? Well, it's that bell-shaped distribution. We're all very familiar with this. It's the most common distribution used, certainly in inventory planning. It's bell-shaped. It's symmetric around the mean, which means that it's mirror image. It doesn't have a long right tail or a long left tail. And it doesn't actually have a hard minimum or maximum. They actually go to the negative and positive infinity. They have a very, very, very low probability. And the normal distribution is a good place to start because many, many things are normally distributed. So we're going to use this and say, OK, how can I solve this question, assuming a normal distribution? And I'm going to assume that it's distributed normally with a mean of 78 and a standard deviation of 19. So let's refresh ourselves on the properties of the normal distribution. Again, the notation is just an N, and you have two parameters, the mean, mu, and sigma, the standard deviation. So the PDF is this term over here, and I'm not going to read it out loud. It's really complicated. This is why we have tables, this is why we have functions, because I would not want you to integrate this function. That's beyond what I expect you guys to do, but we're going to use this function quite a bit. We know what it looks like, though. We all know the normal distribution, right? We've got this mean, and we've got it distributed about that. And if we recall back to our basic probability, we know that within one standard deviation around the mean rate, plus or minus 1 standard deviation, 68% of my probability falls within that. 95% falls within two standard deviations, plus or minus, so four total standard deviations. And if I do 3 plus or minus, it hits over 99 percent of the propability. Now another way that we're going to be using this more commonly in inventory is we're going to talk about the number of standard deviations. And so if I wanted to make sure I'm covering, say, 90%, then I can think of using 1.65 standard deviations. And we're going to call these numbers k values, in a second. 1.96 will give me 95%. 2.81 standard deviations give me 99.5%. Now, when we think about the normal distribution and the two parameters, they each have different functions. The mean or the mu simply shifts the distribution left or right. So if I have a normal distribution with a mean of 100 and a standard deviation of 20, if I make that mean 110, it just shifts it. It doesn't change its shape. It just moves it up and down. The standard deviation, however, changes the shape. But it doesn't change where it sits. So if my standard deviation gets bigger, my normal distribution gets fatter. If my standard deviation gets smaller, then it gets thinner. So the standard deviation affects the shape, and the mean affects the shift, the value. So it moves it up and down. Why does this matter? Well, when we talk about forecasting, forecast air, the sigma, is all about the accuracy. The mu is influenced by the bias. And so we'll talk more about that. But this is how your forecasting ties into your inventory. And we'll spend much more time on this a little later. I just wanted to bring that out now. So we talked about the normal distribution. But you should also be familiar with the unit or standard normal distribution, which is the same thing except I've taken all the values and subtracted off their mean and divided by the standard deviation. This gives me what's known as the unit normal or the standard normal where the mean is 0 and the standard deviation is one. And that's simply because I transformed it. So the k value is simply the number of standard deviations away from the mean. And this can be either a positive or negative number. And these k values, we'll see, are widely used for inventory theory. When we set safety stock, we'll talk about that k times sigma, where k is the safety factor, how sure do you want to be. And that's simply how many standard deviations above the mean do you want to cover, assuming a normal distribution? Remember, the area under this unit normal curve is equal to 1. And in statistics, they call them z-scores. I have no idea why we call them k values. But in every inventory text, it's k. So I just want to be consistent there. And you have all the functions for spreadsheets to find the CDF and the PDF. Notice the only difference here. CDFs have one. The PDF has a zero. The inverse function-- So if I have a mean and a standard deviation for a normal distribution, I can put the probability in, and it'll tell me what the value is. So that's very helpful. And then you have the same things for the standard normal and the inverse standard normal. All right, let's solve that problem using the normal distribution. So I want to know how many chickens do I have to roast to make sure my probability stacking out is less than 10%. That's simply the area in the red there on the right hand side, which means the probability I will not stock out or the Cycle Service level is equal to the probability that x is less than or equal to Q. So I can use this spreadsheet here. And I'm going to use that normal inverse function. The probability is 0.9 because that's 1 minus 0.10 and a mean of 78, standard deviation of 19. It gives me 102.3, so I can just round it to 102 chickens. So if I have 100 two chickens roasted under this distribution, I should stock out no more than 10% of the time. So now I want to answer, what is the probability of stocking out if I roast, say, 99 chickens? So I'm just going to use the cumulative to function. I'm just going to use the spreadsheet function here, put it in NORM.DIST of 99, the mean, the standard deviation. And I'm using the CDF, so I have a 1 there. And it gives me 0.87. So that means the Cycle Service level or the probability I will not stock out is 87%. Subtract that from 1. That gives me my probability of stocking out-- let me clean that up-- which is 13%. All right, the last question was, what's the expected units sold? And what's expected units short? OK, you saw the function, and we're not going to integrate it. Luckily, the expected units short for the unit or standard normal distribution has been derived. It's called the unit normal loss function or G sub k. So we'll talk a lot in future weeks about G sub k. It's essentially the unit normal loss function, and it's equal to f(x) of x-not minus k times the probability that x-not is greater than k. So if you look at this, the first term is simply the PDF. And you're subtracting off that k value times the probability of stocking out. Now I'm not going to go through the derivation, and this has been tabulated. It's in most sheets. And you can calculate in spreadsheets. Now, to find the actual expected units short for your normal distribution, not just the standard, I simply multiply that G sub k by the standard deviation. So my expected unit short is simply going to be sigma, my standard deviation, times the G sub of k for the k that I'm selecting. In spreadsheets, this G sub k, you can use this formula here. I'm highlighting it. It's simply the standard normal of the k minus k times 1 minus the CDF of the k. Remember that 1 minus NORM.S.DIST is simply the probability of stocking out given your k value. So for our problem, I'm just going to plug and chug. And I get k equals 1.105 because my value of 99-- Remember, I said I'm roasting 99 chickens-- 99 minus the mean 78 divided by standard deviation of the distribution 19 gives me 1.105. So this is saying that 99 is 1.105 standard deviations higher than the mean of 78 for that distribution. So now I use the formula. I'm going to plug 1.105 into that G sub k formula, and I get 0.068. Then to find expected units short, I just multiply my standard deviation, 19, by that. And I get 1.3 chickens. All right, and now to find the expect units sold, I'm just going to make it easy. I know what my expected demand is, 78, because that's the distribution. And I'm subtract off the number short. And that'll give me units sold. So if I cook 99 chickens here, then I would expect to sell 76.7 a day. And I expect to be short 1.3 because remember, my mean here was 78, the standard deviation of 19. Right, and so I'm cooking-- what'd I say, 99? So I'm over here. So you're cooking a lot of chickens there. So it's more than mechanics here for using the normal distribution. But you saw how we did this for all the other distributions. We're doing the exact same thing here. We're just leveraging some of the spreadsheet functions to make the math a little bit easier.
