Week 10, Lesson 2 · Video 5

Dr. Inma Borrella: Hello again. In this section of the cases study, we're going to talk about promotions. What is the situation? Well, there is a problem because promotions are creating an issue of availability of a certain product, named product C, and the initial diagnosis made by the VP of Sales and Marketing is that supply chain team is screwing up. The main characters for these section will be the well-known Ralph Goodman, the VP of supply chain, Mary Wilson, the VP of sales and marketing, and some members of the supply chain team. The initial solution to the problem is a simple newsvendor problem. Here we can apply this very well known model because a it's a single period with a clear beginning, a clear end, and it's only during that period that the product can be sold. In this case, it's a promotion, and it works perfectly fine to use a newsvendor in this situation. So supply chain came up with a policy to reduce the probability of stocking out to 10% as requested by Marketing. But when you do the calculations, you quickly realize that this is not the most optimal policy. This is not the policy that will optimize profit. So if we want to optimize profit, we must calculate the critical ratio using the cost of shortage and the cost of excess, and this critical ratio in this specific case is 0.8. So that means that the optimal policy would allow for a 20% probability of stocking out. This is the option that supply chain went for in this case study. But there was an issue. And stockouts were much higher than expected. Of course, Mary, the VP of Sales and Marketing, was not happy at all. And supply chain had to review the model thoroughly and also think, what might be happening? So the first thing that comes to mind is that the demand forecast is wrong. There must be something wrong with the forecast. The demand has been under forecasted, and it's actually greater than what was initially estimated. That would be one option. Another option-- and this is what happened in this case-- is that the promotional period is actually not seven days long. And what was discovered after a few conversations between the supply chain team and the marketing team is that actually the promotional period time varies with a mean of seven days and a standard deviation of three days. So it fluctuates between four days and ten days most of the time. So how can you solve this? This obviously introduces some more complexity to the problem. So you have random demand over a random period, a random time period. Do you know how to approach this problem? Well, actually, you do. Do you remember the Hadley-Whitin equation from Week 9 when we introduced lead time variability, this concept in transportation management? It was exactly the same issue. You had random demand over a random period of time. In that case, it was lead time. In this case, it's promotional period. But it works exactly the same way. So you can apply these two equations to calculate the mean demand over the lead time-- or sorry-- over the promotional period and the standard deviation of the demand over the promotional period, knowing that the promotional period is variable. So what will be the impact on service level with this new policy that we need to apply, knowing that the promotional period time is variable? Something that is interesting and you need to realize is that the cycle service level will not change. If we are implementing the optimal profit optimization policy, the cycle service level will be exactly equal to the critical ratio, and the critical ratio depends on the cost of shortage and the cost of excess. And none of these have changed by knowing this extra information about the promotional period time. The price and the cost for the items are exactly the same. So the cycle service level will remain the same for the optimal policy. What will change are other variables also related with service level, such as the item fill rate and expected units short. The item fill rate will decrease, and the expected units short will increase due to the greater demand variability. So what are the key takeaways from this section? First, that clear communication among departments is key. Sometimes information that seems not so relevant for one area is essential for the work on another area-- such as, in this case, the marketing department didn't think that the decision of some retailers that are making the promotions a little bit longer or a little bit shorter was too relevant. But for supply chain, it really is because it affects the amount of inventory that needs to be ready in advance of the promotion period. Another takeaway is that the smaller the variability of the demand, the better for inventory management. The more accurate forecast that you can have, the better and the less costly it's going to be when you manage your inventory. And finally, we need to highlight that there are always different paths to achieve improvements in supply chain processes. Most processes are very complex. They are interconnected. They have impacts in many different areas. And supply chain managers should be well equipped to understand different perspectives from different parts of the supply chain, be able to evaluate the options, and identify the trade-offs and the benefits and the costs within the same option and also between options. So I really hope you enjoyed this case study, and I'll see you soon in the course.
