Week 7, Lesson 1 · Video 1

Welcome back. In this lesson, we're going to introduce stochastic, or random, demand. And so what we're going to do is build off of everything we've talked about, inventory, planning, before, except we're going to loosen some assumptions. The first big one is we're going to change from assuming deterministic demand, where it's constant known, and we're going to make it stochastic, or variable, or random. And we'll talk more about that. Because we're making the demand random, that means you might run into lost orders. So you might have back orders, as well, because the demand is going to vary. So you might not have enough inventory. So that's something we're going to have to take into account. And the last thing is we're going to play with different planning horizons. We're going to move later this week into single periods. And we'll talk later about infinite periods. But the big focus right now, is the variability of demand. We're going to focus on that and what that means for lost orders. So here's the agenda for this lesson. First, I'm going to talk about the implications between stochastic versus deterministic demand. Then, we're going to solve the same problem many different ways-- actually six different ways. And the only thing that's going to change is the probability distribution. In other words, how do I see that demand changing. We're going to use empirical, which is really just historical demand. And then we're going to go into theoretical probability distributions, both discrete, where they take integer values, and continuous, where they can take any value. So we'll talk about uniform discrete and Poisson distributions. Then, we'll go into uniform for continuous, normal, and triangle distributions. Again, we're going to solve the same problem, and we're going to ask the same three questions each time, and hopefully, this will get the point across that we're going to use the same methods. But depending on the probability distribution that you assume, the techniques will be slightly different. The math will differ a little bit, but you'll get very comfortable to it. OK, the three questions we're going to answer. First, what's the probability that I'll stock out given that I have a certain inventory level? The second question is, OK, how much inventory do I need if I want to meet a certain target service level? And then the third is, what is the expected value of units that I will sell? And what's the expected value of units that I'll be short, or that I'll stock out, if I have a target inventory or service level? We'll go into each of these three questions in depth. And again, hopefully, by the end of this lesson, you'll be very comfortable, not only with how to answer these questions, but how to use all of these different distributions. So let's get started.
