Week 4, Lesson 2 · Video 1

So now let's develop our first inventory model. We're going to develop the simplest form, but it's also one of the most commonly used, and one of the most useful ones. And it's called the economic order quantity, or EOQ. So let's look at first the assumptions. This is a big laundry list of assumptions we made. And here's what we're assuming for EOQ. Let me highlight the critical ones. The big assumption that we are making is in demand. We're assuming that it's constant, it's known, and it's continuous. It's a uniform level of demand. Lead time in this initial model will be instantaneous. When I place the order, it shows up. All the items are independent. I'm constantly reviewing my inventory level. I'm only looking at one location. I assume I have unlimited capacity at this point. No discounts, no shortages or stock outs-- that's a critical assumption. Perishability doesn't exist, so things can last forever if I want them to. It's an infinite planning horizon. So this means I don't have to worry about end effects. I can develop a steady-state policy, and what happens during one replenishment cycle we assume will happen in every replenishment cycle. So it's an infinite planning horizon. We're only going to look at one item, and we're going to look at a single stage of that item. So like I said, it's the simplest case. But as we'll see, it's very powerful. So the notation-- nothing new here. We talked about demand with the large letter D, the variable or purchase cost, the fixed ordering cost-- the c sub t, the holding charge is h. We're going to mainly use the c sub e for the excess holding cost, which is dollars per unit time. We're going to look at Q. In fact, this is what we're really going to be looking for, is this Q star, which is the optimal replenishment order quantity. We're going to be looking for how frequently it happens, so how much time elapses between each order for that T. That's called order cycle time. And if you take the inverse of that, you get the amount of orders that happen over a period of time. And we'll use these two interchangeably. And we're going to eventually look at the total relevant cost, and the total cost of the different policies that we apply. So one way to really get a handle on this is to look at inventory charts. And we did this a little bit before, but let me build this one out. So this is for EOQ, and we're assuming demand is uniform and deterministic, lead time is instantaneous, and whatever amount is ordered is actually received. So my demand is steady state. So this is EOQ's main assumption, that my demand is relatively stable and known. And when I place my orders, whenever they are, they're going to show up instantaneously. So when I place the order here, it's going to show up at that same time. Remember, this horizontal axis is time. And so my inventory on hand is going to be this nice, familiar saw-tooth pattern that we've talked about in the past. And so when I look at and want to understand what my average inventory on hand is, because it's an infinite planning horizon, I can just look at one replenishment cycle and just look at this inventory on hand. I'm coloring that part. This is what my inventory will be. So if I want to figure out what is my average inventory on hand, I know from basic geometry that it's going to be one half base times height. Well, what's the base here? Let's figure this out. It's going to be one half. The base is going to be one replenishment cycle. Because it's infinite, right? So I can do one and it will apply to all of them. And what's my height? Well, I'm ordering Q, whatever my order is. So my average inventory for cycle stock-- that's what this is-- is just going to be Q over 2, which is the area of that triangle. So keep that in mind. We'll use that in a few minutes. But these inventory charts help us understand how the demand, the ordering pattern, the lead time, affect the average inventory on hand. So when it gets down to it, what we're really trying to figure out is the optimal policy. And you can think of it as a choice between ordering, say, with this green period, where every green T units of time, I order this green Q amount. Or do I order a smaller quantity, this little red Q, more frequently? So that's really, at the heart of it, what we're trying to figure out. Is it better to order once monthly, or a smaller amount each week? And so it's a trade-off between the two. And what we're going to end up with is a policy. And it's going to say something along the lines of ordering Q star every period of time T star-- and I'll find numbers for those, obviously. Or it might be in the case where I order Q star when the inventory on hand is 0. So for the green policy, I place an order here, place an order here, my inventory goes down, place an order here, place an order here, and so on. So this is the ultimate objective that we're trying to figure out, and the policy that we're trying to determine. So now let's look at the total costs, so back to the four common components that we had. And let's get a little more specific with them. And I'm going to go through this total cost equation, explain each term. But I also want to make sure the units work. So I'm going to use the following units-- U is for the number of units, or items. My time-- I'm just going to do it as years. So I'm going to use year for the time. It's common, because you talk about your holding rate per year, and things like that. For orders, I'm just going to use O. And for the cost, I'm just going to use a dollar sign. It doesn't matter what the currency is, but it just makes it a little simpler. So let's go through each of these terms. Let's start with the purchase, which is this first term. And so what are the units going to be? Well, it's cost is dollars per unit. The D is the annual demand, units per year. And so just looking at this, I see that the units cancel out. And I end up with dollars per year, which is nice, because this total cost equation I'm trying to minimize the total cost, which is essentially going to be in dollars per year for that length of time. So now let's go to the ordering cost. So same thing-- the ordering cost is going to be the cost for each order, dollars per order. And that's going to be multiplied by the demand, which is units per year. That's divided by the quantity, which is units per order. So the units cancel out there. The order would go on top, and that would cancel out with here. So again I'm with dollars per order. So this D over Q is telling me the number of times I'm going to place an order. And so that will become important as we go further along. All right, let's talk about holding costs. This is the third term. This first value, c sub e is the cost of the excess inventory. So it's going to be dollars per each unit per year. So it's unit time. Q over two is that the level that we said we'd have-- that average inventory level. And the units on this is just units. It's not units per order. It's how much I'm expected to have. It's a value. It's not the order quantity, or quantity per order. This always confused me when I was first learning this. But you see if it's just units, it's just the level of the inventory that we have. It all cancels out fine, and it ends up being, again, dollars per year. The last term, the shortage cost, which isn't going to be as relevant when we talk about EOQ because we made the assumption there's no stock outs, but let's just go through it anyway. The c sub s is very similar to the c sub be. And what it is, it's going to be dollars for every unit that I'm short per year or length of time. And then this expected unit short term is just the number of units per replenishment cycle that I might be short. So you see that the inventory holding cost and the shortage costs have a very similar structure. One is measuring how much I have on hand, and one is measuring the average amount that I expect to be short. So they're very parallel, and that will become important in a lecture or two. But again, units cancel out. Its dollars per year. So all the units work for this, and so we get this total cost equation. Now the question is, of these elements, which ones are relevant to the quantity decision that I'm making? Because as you can see by the function, it's the total cost as a function of Q. So the thing I'm trying to determine is q. Everything else is an input. So what's relevant? Well, it's only relevant if I can control it, and it impacts my decision. So if Q was not in the individual term, it doesn't impact my decision. So if I look at this first term for purchase orders, does the amount I buy change how much it costs per item, or how much my demand is going to be? No. So therefore, it's not relevant. Purchase cost is not relevant in this inventory model. What about for the ordering cost? Well, yes. The ordering cost will change as Q gets bigger or smaller, so that stays in. What about the holding costs? Well, same thing here. It changes as Q changes. Shortage costs? No. So we can say that for total relevant costs for Q, the two terms that matter the most are this first term, which we're calling the order costs, and then the second term, which is going to be the holding cost. These are the two critical values, or cost components, that we'll trade off. So before we go into the analytical derivation of how we come up with this EOQ, or the economic order quantity, let's get some intuition. Let's look at a simple example. And we'll do this a couple times. And again, what I put in the top right here is your total relevant cost equation as a function of Q. This first thing is my ordering costs-- the number of orders that I expect in the course of that time, that year, and the cost for each one. And this second term is my holding cost-- however much inventory I have on hand times the cost of holding each unit for that period of time. So I have this-- so I give you some values here. Demand is 2000 units per year. Cost of placing an order-- remember, that's c sub T-- is $500 an order. The cost of the product, c, is $50 per unit. And the holding cost is $0.25 of the unit cost per year. Think of that as the hurdle rate, the capital cost. So what does that mean the c sub e will be, the cost for excess? Well, it's simply going to be 50, the cost of the item, times 0.25, which equals 12.5-- $12.50. Now, I give you the selling price, but does that matter? No, it's irrelevant. It's a red herring. So that doesn't matter at all. We'll talk later when price matters, but for this, it's a total minimal cost. Because I'm assuming for my relationship here, whatever I charge doesn't have an impact on my inventory replenishment policy. So now let's map these. And what I have here on the horizontal axis is the order quantity from 100 to 700 units per order. And on the vertical axis, I have the total relevant costs. And this is in dollars per year. And so what I want to do is see how these costs trade off. So this first line is the ordering cost. And you can see that as Q increases, ordering cost decreases. And it's not linear, just like you would expect. You look at this equation. As Q is very small, this is going to be a very large number. And as it decreases, it's going to get smaller and smaller. And it will eventually be asymptotic to 0. What about the holding costs? Well, these will increase as Q gets bigger. That means I'm going to have more hanging out. I'm going to have more inventory. So the holding cost increases with Q, and it increases linearly. And so if I add these two together to get my total relevant cost-- not my total cost, my total relevant cost-- I look for the minimum. And this will be what we call Q star. And that's what we're going to try and find out. The critical takeaway, though, from EOQ is it essentially, we're trading off two conflicting costs-- the ordering costs, which decreases as the Q gets bigger, and the holding cost, which increase as the Q gets bigger. And we want to find the point where the combination of those is minimal. And as you will see, that actually happens where they are equal to each other. And we'll talk more about that in a little one.
