Week 7 · Recitation · Video 2

OK, so here's a problem that we're going to look at today. Like I said, you will find this in this week's problem set. So I encourage everyone of you who haven't already to go back, look at this problem, try to solve the problem, wrestle with the problem before you come here and watch the solution on how to solve it. I think you will find this video much more rewarding if you've actually worked through the details of this problem. So those of you haven't, stop the video now and go back, and then you can come back. Those of you feel like you've understood this, feel free to skip ahead, because I'm just going to go and read through the problem and highlight a few things. If you feel like you understand the problem properly, feel free to skip ahead. The rest of you, OK, here we go. So we're looking at a bookstore. The MIT bookstore is selling a popular book on supply chain management. So it's a popular book, good. The book is used as a textbook in a supply chain course during the fall semester and is sold by the store at $160 per book. Once the semester is halfway through, sales tend to drop. At this point, since the bookstore needs to use its retail space for other books, the store clears any remaining inventory of the supply chain book by selling it at $60 per book. The supply chain course has approximately 500 students every fall semester. During previous semesters, the book has sold 200 copies, on average. The bookstore purchases the books from a distributor at $100 per book. There is a significant lead time from the distributor, so orders out before the book need to be placed well before the semester. Also, due to the lead time, there's no time to replenish the books once the semester starts. Consequently, the bookstore needs to make a single decision about how many books to order before the start of a semester. Looking at previous semester's sales, a manager at the bookstore sees that they have never sold more than 250 copies of the book. The data also shows that they have sold as few as 100 books in some semesters. Based on this, she believes that ordering the average sales in previous semesters-- that is, 200 books-- is a good policy for the upcoming semester. OK, so what are we looking at here? Clearly, this is a single-period model. Why? Because it has the two characteristics that I told you about. We know that we have a well-defined selling season, right? It's up here. It says that it's during one semester that we sell the books. And at the end of the semester, we want to clear any remaining inventory, right? So we can no longer sell the book at full price after a certain point in time. So it's a well-defined sales period. Also, we cannot replenish during the sales period. And that's over here. It says that due to the lead time, there is no time to replenish the books once the semester starts. So we're looking at a single-period decision where the manager has to make a quantity decision about how many books to order before the semester starts. So the manager has to make a bet. How much do you think we're going to sell, and how much are we going to order in order to meet that demand? So this is the problem that we're going to look at.
