Week 8, Lesson 3 · Video 5

OK, once we've received the material at my warehouse or distribution center, I've got to put it away. And essentially what we'll see is, the put-away function is the mirror of order picking. And so bringing stuff in and putting it away is almost this reverse image of taking stuff from storage and moving it out to shipping in that picking process. And this is really where the warehouse management system plays a key role here the WMS is the system that. Allows you to run everything within your warehouse it determines where you actually want to locate items, that's called slotting. Where do you want to store them? It. Directs the labor to where to place the product and also records the inventory levels so you know how much you've got there And. You can think about everything that this would require, it requires a lot of data. It needs to know for each item or all the products, the size, the weight, the cube, the height, the segmentation status, current orders, current status of the pick-face, all these different things to determine where is the best place for me to put this new product that I'm bringing in. Is it a fast moving item? Is it a slow moving item? Is it something where I'm running out of it on the pick-face where I'm creating orders, or do I have a ton of it so I just want to put it in the back? So you have to have all of this data readily at your fingertips. Now some of this, think about the data you need in for each SKU, this is more than that because I need, I'm not moving individual eaches here. I'm. Moving pallets or cases so it's kind of a series of pieces of information that you need. You need. To know how it's being moved as well you also need to be able to identify the products and the locations instantaneously. And this can be done through different technologies, barcoding, where you scan the item, scan the location, so the system knows where it is. You can use RFID, radial frequency identification, for even more advanced identification because that helps me know that each individual item where it's located, as opposed to a barcode it's telling me it's a type of item. This is a pallet of soda versus this pallet 1234 with all the individual items and where they came from. So RFID provides a lot more detail, comes at more of a cost than simple barcoding. But we'll talk about that in a later course when we talk about information systems and technologies. But there are different approaches and strategies to the put-away. So you want to have it, it's going to be a directed put-away generally. And the WMS, the warehouse management system, will direct you to a specific location ahead of time. Now you can think of some different options here. Do I want to put it in a primary or a secondary storage area? A primary storage area is where they're going to start picking from it. , So let's say I have a pallet full of cases and the question is, if I'm going to start building orders out of that I might want to go straight to the picking line where they're going to start building orders because then that's one less touch. , However if I have 10 pallets of that product coming in and I only need one of them on the picking. Line. I might put nine of them into that secondary storage. Now that means I'm going to touch them twice, but I don't want to have them all sitting there cluttering my pick line, where I'm putting the orders together. You can think of the trade-off by having a fixed location versus a random location. What do we mean by fixed location? Well, this SKU is always in this slot. Right? Think about your own refrigerator or your own pantry. I guarantee you, you use fixed locations. You always have your milk in a certain place, the eggs in a certain place, the salad dressing in a certain place in the refrigerator. Same thing with a warehouse. You can think about why you might want to do this. It gets very efficient for an individual because you always know where to go for a certain item. However, you're going to need more space because it's not always full. The whole idea of a random, or most efficient location, is where the WMS will constantly keep track of what slots are open and move you, or move the location of that item, to the spot where it's most efficient. So, essentially, it's constantly looking at the input information coming in for receiving as well as the demand information and determining, well, is this a fast mover now? Maybe. I want to slot this in an area that's a little easier to get to and so we'll talk more about that when we get to picking, but there's a big trade-off between fixed versus. Random locations You can also think about the difference between shared and dedicated spaces. Now think about warehouse in those pictures I showed you earlier. I mean essentially it's just a shelf, right? And so the question is, do I only have one type of SKU in shelf or can I mix them? And can I have more than one in there? I have cups and plastic plates. . I have two different SKUs in there does that make sense? And this is the trade-off because as I have shared spaces, the total amount of space I need goes down. Now there is debate whether, if I have multiple SKUs in the same slotting location, the same shelf, that it adds to complexity of the pick and there might be errors in what they pick. Someone might pick the wrong item and we'll talk about that in a second. But this is a trade-off between shared versus dedicated. You might want to have a batched and sequenced. So you do almost a presort at staging if you have commonly located items. So let's say you're receiving things in at the case level and you have a bunch coming in that you know are going to have to be put away into a certain area in the DC. Well, why not collect the common ones, build a pallet there, and. Then move it That makes it a little easier. You want to minimize that transportation, the number of loads that you have to take back to that storage area. Again, handling smaller items takes more effort than handling a big item, a pallet. And. Then there's a strategy called chaotic. Sometimes this is just called random. But the idea is that the user, , just whenever they get stuff in they put it where whatever is open. They just make sure the WMS knows where it is and they can pick any location and put it in there to include sharing. So there's no dedicated spaces here. Now some companies use this and they claim it can really dramatically reduce the amount of time it takes to store things. So Amazon has claimed that this increases the amount that they can store by 2 times. And there's some interesting reasons here. So, for example, for using a shared space, they claim, and it's been backed up, that if you put very different types of SKUs in the same shared space it actually doesn't lead to increasing mispicks, as opposed to if I had very similar looking items in a shared space. Let me give you an example. If I'm doing shoes, and if you've ever been in a shoe warehouse, all the boxes look the same. And if I have them in shared areas it might make it, it might be much easier to mispick as opposed to if I have a shared space with shoes and say, socks. And so there's very unlikely that you're going to mispick those. You're not going to confuse a shoe with a sock. And so the idea here is that using a shared space makes sense as long as the SKUs look a little bit different. And the idea then is that, by doing this randomly, . As long as the WMS knows where everything is it can handle and find the most efficient way. OK, so these are strategies and the thing you're really trying to do for put-away is minimize your travel distance because you're taking something from receiving and putting it away into storage. And what we'll see is how I put things into storage is also impacted by how I want to retrieve them and take them back to the pick line. So here's an example, this is my DC. And that circle in the bottom is where my current location is, that's where I'm receiving stuff. And I've got this blue and red, those squares, . And these are slots the red one is a location where I have to retrieve a pallet. The blue is an empty slot location where I have to take a pallet to there. So what would I do? Well, I. Would load it onto a forklift and take the pallet to that first blue slot and then I'd come back empty for my next job. And that might be, oh I've. Got to retrieve this red pallet I go there empty, pick it up, bring it back, and it goes off to the pick line. . And I might have the same thing here I've got to drop one off, pick one up, . And you can see what you have and you have four round trips here. If you're thinking about this and if the WMS is tying these things together, then there's a much more efficient way, which you've probably figured out just by looking at this. I could turn this into two round trips where I take a pallet in that left trip. Go out to that blue slot, put it away, then go empty to that next slot in the first aisle, pick up that pallet, bring it back, and then do the same thing on that second loop on the right. This is what's known as interleaving. You're interleaving put-aways and retrievals. It's also sometimes called the dual-cycle operation. Now it seems obvious, but what we're doing here, we're combining two functions. We're combining the put-away with the retrieval. And so those things have to be tied together. And it's one way where you can minimize distance traveled, which is a major component of the labor effort here for the put-away. Function. This is very similar to what we'll see in transportation for vehicle routing. Essentially you can think of these all as points that I have to visit. And we'll talk a lot about the traveling salesman problem and vehicle routing problems because there are direct parallels to them. But the big thing you're doing, For the put-away, you're putting things away to make it very easy to retrieve. Again, what I do in one of these warehouse function impacts what I can do in the next step.
