Week 10, Lesson 1 · Video 5

OK, let's give an example now of solving a problem that comes up in one-to-one or direct moves. And this is dealing all with shipment frequency. And some of this should look very familiar to some of the concepts you've learned earlier. So let's suppose I have some product that's produced at A. And it's a steady rate of production-- it could be agriculture; it could be mining, whatever-- of s units per year. And then it's shipped directly to B. That might be a port. It's going out somewhere, but I only move from A to B. Any product stored at A costs me something because it's holding in my yard. And that's h dollars per year, and that's a penalty or a holding cost. And so the question is how frequently should I ship to minimize costs. So let's think about the costs for transportation. Again, I've got loading and unloading. And I'm just going to use the variables here. So I've got a CLF, which is a fixed cost for loading and UF for unloading. And then I've got a variable cost. And I'm calling that CLVU and CLVU-- or CUVU for the loading variable cost and the unloading variable cost. And it's variable with respect to the units or the quantity. So I've got both fixed and variable costs for loading and unloading, just like we described earlier. The direct line haul, though, has a fixed cost. That's CDF. That's the fixed cost for the direct line haul, the cost of just getting the truck there, having it ready. Then there's a variable cost for distance. That's CDVD, the direct variable cost by distance. And there's also a variable cost by the quantity. And so that's the variable cost for the number of units on there. And you think about it as being the weight. So, if I have a lot more on there, it's going to be heavier. My mileage per gallon might go down. So it might cost me more. In reality, that has very little effect in most modes. It can matter if you have a lot of hills and things, but, in any respect, it's there. So you have a fixed cost for direct line haul and a variable with respect to distance and the quantity just because of the weight. So what's the total cost per shipment? Well, I'm just going to bring these all together-- the loading costs, the direct costs, and the unloading costs. And so, if I just kind of combine terms, I can bring those into the CLF, the CDF, and the CUF, which are all the fixed costs for the direct line haul for the loading, the direct, and the unloading. The next term is everything that's variable with respect to the quantity being shipped. And the third is variable with respect to the distance, so three big terms. Let me keep going. So what is my total cost per year? Well, you're going to say, OK, all the things that are costs that are driven by the variable cost per unit-- that's that first term, CLVU plus CDVU plus CUVU-- times q, how many am I going to have? s/q, right? So I divide. Notice that the q's will cancel out there. So everything has to be loaded. Everything has to be unloaded. So I'm going to multiply that by s, which is the total amount of stuff that I'm moving. Hopefully, that makes sense to you all. The next term, the cost per shipment, is all the things that you see for the CLUF. It's the fixed costs for the loading, the direct, and the unloading plus that distance cost. Yes, it's variable per distance, but positions A and B don't move, right? So, essentially, every shipment is going the same distance. So it's going to be a fixed cost now for every shipment. And so s/q is the number of shipments I'm going to have. s is the total amount moved. q is the amount I'm moving each time. s/q tells me how many shipments I'm going to have. And the last term should be very familiar to you. It's the holding cost, right? h is the penalty, and then q is amount that I'm moving over 2 because that's, on average, how much I'm going to have there. And so that's just the holding cost. So, bringing these all together, I've got a total cost per year. It's going to be the variable unit cost times the total number of units I'm moving, the fixed shipping cost times the number of shipments I have, plus the average inventory times that inventory holding cost. How do I find the q that lowers that? Hopefully, you have the EOQ formula tattooed on your body. And you know that it's square root of 2s times that fixed cost divided by h, which is our penalty. So, once I know q star, I can find t star, which means I can find n star, both the frequency and then the number of shipments. And so let's try it. Let's do a number. So here's my firm produces 5,000 pallets of widgets per year and ships them a distance of 250 miles to this port. Loading costs are $10 fixed plus $5 per pallet, while unloading is $15 plus $10 per pallet. Trucking costs is $1.50 a mile. That's $1.50. And each truck can carry up to 30 pallets maximum. So each truck can carry 30 pallets. My holding penalty is $10,000 per pallet per year. Make sure you get the units. And I two questions. How much should I ship each time? And how frequently should I ship? And we should be able to figure this out. So what I want you to do is pause this video and see if you can figure this out. Give it a couple of minutes, and then I'll be here waiting for you when you're ready. OK, hopefully, you tried to work it out, and you're not just listening through, but let me go through the solution. So first thing we do-- what is the fixed cost per shipment? Well, we know that, if you sum up the costs, the fixed costs are about 250 miles times $1.50 per mile plus adding up all the individual fixed costs is $25. So it's about $400 a shipment. Now, if I plug that into my EOQ, my q star comes out to be 20 pallets. So it's saying, for economic order quantity, ship 20 pallets each time. My t star, just put that q star over s. 20/500 comes out to about 0.2 shipments per week-- weeks per, shipment rather. Flipping that upside down, it's about five shipments or five moves per week or, for a 50-week year, 250 shipments a year. So my total cost, I've got three elements for this. I've got the per unit cost. That's the first term, 15 times 5,000 units, pallets being moved. And then I've got the fixed cost, which is $100,000, which is $400 a shipment, 250 moves. And the last term is the inventory holding cost, and it's $10,000, the penalty, times 10, so $100,000. Add that all up, $275,000 annually-- so I should be making five shipments per week of 20 pallets each for a total cost of $275,000. Boom, my job is done. Or is it? So someone might come back and say, hey, you're shipping these trucks 2/3 full. You're shipping air. That's a waste of money. It's bad for the environment. Why are you doing this? You should ship full truckloads because that'll save us money because then you're fully utilizing the vehicle. Well, let's see. Let's go through. And so what are we doing? The only thing we're changing here is three-- I'm shipping full trucks. So I'm going to ship full trucks through now. How will that change things? So, again, stop the video. Try and see what it is if you're going to ship a full truckload each time. And I'll be here waiting for you to go through and show you my solution. OK, I'm back. Hopefully, you tried something. Here's what the solution was for the first time, letting the EOQ figure that out at 20 pallets. But now, what are we doing differently? I'm shipping full trucks. What's a full truck? 30 pallets. So you might say, well, how do I figure out the rest. Well, if I'm shipping 5,000 a year, and I'm shipping 30 each time, that means I'm shipping 166 times. I'm just going to divide. It's pretty simple, about 3 and 1/3 a week. And so what does my total cost come out to be? Well, I just will calculate this through again. So my cost per individual item doesn't change. It's still $15 per item with all the loading and unloading because that's a per item, and I'm still shipping 5,000. So that component is still $75,000. The second term, though, is a little different because I'm shipping less frequently. I'm shipping bigger loads less frequently. So that cost is going to go down. Then the holding costs, though, I'm holding it a little longer. So that's going to go up. So my total cost is $291,400. Or I'm shipping 10 shipments every three weeks, roughly, 30 palettes for each truck for cost of $291,000. Wow, I'm paying more even though I'm shipping full truckloads. Does that make sense? Hopefully, it does, and this is a very easy lesson for you if you make sure you understood how inventory works because what we're doing is we're making trade-offs. Shipping full trucks lower that direct transportation cost-- that's in the blue-- by about $33,000 per year, but increase the holding costs by about $50,000. So it means it's more cost. Now why do I do this simple, trivial example? To illustrate the point-- if you're purely in transportation, you're going to be compensated on the blue. So what is your option? You're going to go for fill the truck because I'm going to ship fewer of them. And then I'm going to be paying out less for direct transportation. So, therefore, I'm doing a better job because I'm paying less in transportation per pallet. But, if you look at what the impact on inventory is, ah, you're paying the price there. So, again, this drives home that original point of transportation, inventory, the whole system interacts together. So, yes, if I ship full truckloads, I'll lower the costs in one area, but it's like squeezing a balloon, right? It's going to increase in another. So you have to try to find that optimal quantity between the two.
