Week 8, Lesson 2 · Video 3

Now let's talk about the difference between Inputted and Implied Performance Metrics. And this is all about when we calculate Safety Stock. Remember the expected cost of Safety Stock is simply the Cost of Holding Inventory, the c_e, times that Safety Factor, k, times the standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time. So let's say I start with some metric, Cycle Service Level, just the probability I don't stock out during a cycle. Well once I know that, I know the probability of not stocking out, it's just one minus CSL, one minus the Cycle Service Level. And once I know that, either one of those, I know my k value, which this is assuming a normal distribution of the demand. Well, once I know the k value, assuming I know what my standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time is, I know my Safety Stock. Therefore I can add that to my expected Demand over Lead time, mu(DL), and I get my Reorder Point for (s, Q) Inventory Policy. And therefore I can figure out my Total Relevant Cost with the two parameters, the s, the Reorder Point, and the Q, the quantity that I'll order each cycle. But once I know my k, I can also figure out the Cost of Stockout Event, or this B_1. Or if I have a B_1, I can find that k as well. Because once that k is set, that's going to determine, if I have everything else out, what my B_1 will be. And once I know that, I can figure out again my Total Relevant Cost. But then you could also think about Item Fill Rate, because once I know my k, that dictates what my G(k), my Unit Normal Loss function is going to be, and that determines what my Fill Rate is going to be. Now that will also dictate once I know my G(k), I know what my real expected units short are, because that's just multiplying that Unit Normal Loss function, G(k) times the standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time. And then finally, once I know the probability of a stockout, I will know what my Cost per Item Short is. And then I can also figure that out from the expected unit short as well. So what is this that we're saying? Well, once I pick any one of these metrics, we started with Cycle Service Level, that determine my k. Once my k is set, each one of these other metrics is fixed. It's implied. I can't have an Item Fill Rate that gives me different k than the Cycle Service Level. Once that k is set, all the other metrics are implied. So this is what I mean when I say Inputted versus Implied. If I input an Item Fill Rate, that's going to dictate the k. So that will imply what the equivalent Cycle Service Level be, what the equivalent Cost per Item Short will be, and what the equivalent Cost for Stockout Event will be. So this is a very useful way to calculate and find out what the Implied Cost of a Stockout is, because in most real situations, you're going to be given by management some Fill Rate to hit, some target, or some Cycle Service Level. And what's very helpful sometimes is to go and back calculate for all the Q's that you're managing, all of those Stock Keeping Units, what is the Implied Cost per Item Short. What is the Implied Cost for Stockout Event, because sometimes it's shocking how high or how out of whack it is compared to the importance of the item. So all that I'm trying to show from this slide is that they're all related. Once I pick one metric, the other three are implied. And so this helps you determine how they connect to each other, and if you're given a Fill Rate, you can always figure out what the Cycle Service Level is, and vice versa.
