Week 8, Lesson 1 · Video 9

What are the key points from this lesson? It was a long lesson, so there are a lot of points to remember here. So, the first one is the Base Stock Policy. This was the first Inventory Policy we did during this lesson. And this was the one-for-one policy. Remember that? So, if I sell five items, I place the order for the same quantity, for those five items. So, I place that immediately for the same quantity that was sold. And what we're trying to figure out is that Base Stock, that S*, that I want to keep my Inventory Position at, at all times. And we found that was equal to the expected Demand Over Lead Time plus some k factor, a Level of Service factor, times the standard deviation of Demand Over Lead Time. Then, we spent a lot of time on the Continuous Review Policy of (s,Q), where whenever my Inventory Position is less than or equal to s, I order Q units, or really, Q*, because we figured that out from EOQ generally. Then my s is going to be equal to, again, expected Demand Over Lead Time plus k, some Safety Factor, times the standard deviation of Demand Over Lead Time. And remember that sigma(DL) could be the Root Mean Square error of the forecast. So, it's really based on the variability of your forecast error, but if you don't have that, then use the standard deviation of the Demand Over Lead Time. Now to figure out this k, because we really want to figure out what the Safety Stock is, we looked at four different ways of doing that, four different metrics. We looked at Cycle Service Level, we looked at Item Fill Rate, we looked at Cost per Stockout Event, and Cost per Item Short. Remember, the Cost per Stockout Event, we said the costs were equal to B_1 costs, and Costs for Item Short is our old friend c_s. Now these first two metrics, these are Level of Service metrics. And these bottom two, the Cost per Stockout Event and Cost per Item Short, are Cost metrics. So, if it's a Cost metric, how do we find those? We simply took the Total Relevant Cost equation and found the k that minimized that total cost, given these different cost structures. For the Level of Service metrics, what we did there is we didn't optimize, we said what level of inventory would lead to a Cycle Service Level of 95%. Or what amount of inventory would lead to an Item Fill Rate of 99%, and we set our Inventory Level to that. So, they're slightly different methods of going about. Generally, you're going to see more Level of Service metrics than cost metrics, because costing, putting a dollar value on a stockout event or an item short, is not a trivial task. But at the end of the day, we used these four different metrics, and here are the values we used in our sample problem, and we came up with different values of k. Each one of these gave a value of k, because, at the end of the day, whatever metric you'd use, whether it's a service or a cost metric, it's going to tell you how much Safety Stock to keep. So, over here is the k value and then, this is the corresponding cost of the Safety Stock. So that's simply k times the standard deviation, Demand over Lead Time times the Cost of Excess. So let me just box this. This is what's in this column. It's the cost of the Safety Stock. And if you look at it for a minute, you'll notice that as my k gets higher, that's saying I'm going to have more Safety Stock, so therefore, I expect my cost of holding Safety Stock will go up. The lowest will have the lowest cost of Safety Stock. You should also start thinking you know what these aren't independent. If I determine my Cycle Service Level that's going to tell me a k that will naturally tell me what the Item Fill Rate is going to be and vice versa. And that's what we will explore in the next lesson. But first, one last point about Safety Stock, because I want to make sure that everyone understands what we're talking about. When I look at Safety Stock, the thing to remember is that Safety Stock only buffers for variability of demand during my Lead Time. It isn't for any other time, it's only while I'm expecting demand to be delivered over that Lead Time. These are the key points from this lesson. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions please use the discussion and please do the practice problems.
