Week 7, Lesson 1 · Video 12

OK. What were the key points of this lesson? Well, all that we did in this whole lesson-- it was a long lesson, a little bit of math in there-- was that we answered three questions. We answered-- what is the probability of stocking out or not stocking out for a given inventory level, how much inventory is required to meet a target service level, and then what are the expected units sold and the expect units short for a given target or inventory or a service level. And each of these questions become very relevant when we have stochastic demand. Previously we assumed demand was deterministic. It was always exactly what we said it would be. Now it's a little more realistic. It can vary. So these questions become relevant. We answer these three questions for six different distributions. Three are discrete. Three were continuous. For the discrete, we went through empirical, or historical, data, which isn't used that much in practice. Usually you just make sure your empirical is close to a certain distribution and then use that distribution. The reason why-- to actually use an empirical distribution in practice, you've got to keep all of the data there. And so these five other theoretical distributions that we studied, you only need one, two, or three parameters to tell you everything you need to know about that distribution. So then we went through discrete uniform in the Poisson process. We talked about the uniform continuous distribution, normal distribution, the triangle distribution. To be honest, for inventory, you're going to use normal the most because that's kind of standard, especially for B class items that you're going to spend a lot of time on. You'll use Poisson. You'll see that again when we talk about slow moving or high value items. And you'll see a little bit of the triangle, but I see this more in practice when I want to get a rough idea of something when I don't have any accurate data. It's a good first approximation. Now, the methods are identical. How you find the probability of stocking out and all these other things is the same, but the math is a little different depending on the function that you're using, the assumption of the demand distribution. So the demand distribution though is what connects forecasting-- everything you've studied previously-- to inventory planning. So in inventory planning, you actually use the forecast error rather than the variability of the demand itself. Now, the forecast error, the root mean square error of the forecast, that's what you want to do because if I know what my forecast is and my forecast is never wrong, then I'm essentially deterministic. But my forecast is usually wrong. How wrong am I? Well, I look at the error term. So that root mean square error is what tells me what my variability is for how I want to model my inventory. We'll talk more about this in a future lesson. But if I don't know the route mean square error of my forecast, then we can assume that the average of the demand is the average of the forecast. And therefore the standard deviation of the demand is a proxy for that root mean square error of the forecast. So if you have the forecast error, that's what you use in your inventory. If you don't, you use the variability of the demand. So if you have a bias in your forecast, what does that do? That simply shifts your domain distribution either higher or lower. Just like when we talk about the normal distribution when mu changes, that's what the bias will do. It'll move your expected demand up or down. All right. So that's kind of a quick summary of what we did. A lot of math in there and hopefully you got the methodology down. Because if you're comfortable with answering these three questions with different distributions, the rest of the inventory section will be a breeze. That's why I spent so much time getting you comfortable with different probability distributions. So please solve the quick questions. Solve the practice problems. If you have any questions, use the discussion forum, and have fun. And if you have time, go get a rotisserie chicken for dinner tonight. All right. Thanks, guys.
