Week 2, Lesson 1 · Video 7: Forecasting Metrics

So let's look at different forecasting metrics. So no matter what metric you use, they are all based off of the error term. And the error is simply defined as the actual amount at time t, whatever that observation is, minus what I forecasted at that time. Now, some books will define this opposite. They'll say the error is the forecasted minus the actual. It doesn't matter. Half the books say one, half the books say the other way. At the end of the day, all that matters is the difference between the two. The error is simply the difference. So I can look at different types of metrics that are used to measure the quality of a forecast. One is the mean deviation. And so what I'm doing here is I'm summing up the errors for each observation. And then I divide that by n, the number of observations I have, to find the average, or the mean, deviation. So think back to the example we did with the blue squares and the green triangles. In that case, the blue squares, this mean deviation, would be zero. Because if something's totally not biased, the over predictions will balance out with the under predictions, and they'll cancel each other out. That doesn't give you a good sense of accuracy. So what people typically do is they take the absolute value of the error term. So mean absolute deviation of the MAD, you simply sum up the absolute values of each of the error terms and divide by n. Now, another way to get rid of that positive negative, that canceling out, is instead of taking the absolute value, you square the term. And so that's the whole idea behind the mean squared error. So I'm squaring each error term, summing them up, dividing by n, so I'm finding the mean or the average squared error. And so again, this gets rid of the canceling out by the over and under predicting. But it does do something that's a little more subtle in that it biases the forecast, or the error gets influenced by larger outliers. So if I have a forecast that's way out there, then that difference is now being squared. And so it's going to have a larger influence. And we'll talk more about this when we talk about regression and causal analysis, because it has an impact. Typically in practice, we take a square root of this. And that's what's known as a root mean square error. We do that mainly to make it in terms so it's the same as the expected value. And so instead of squared units, it's in single units. But it's the same thing. It's the square root of the sum of the squared errors divided by the number of observations. All of these four that we've talked about so far are absolute. So if I had a forecast of, say, a thousand units and my error was 10, that would be much better than if my forecast was 100 units and my error was 10. But all of these metrics-- the mean deviation, the mean absolute deviation, the mean square error, the root mean square error, they wouldn't say anything different. And so that's why I introduced these metrics that look at the mean percent error. So you look at the error divided by the actual amount. So it gives you the percent of the actual that you're off. And you take the average of that. But this metric still has the same problem as the mean deviation in that it, in the biased and unbiased forecast, the overage and the underage will cancel out. So what people typically do is they look at the mean absolute percent error, or the MAPE. And it's simply the summation of the absolute values of each observation divided by the actual values divided by n to take the average. So let's look at how these are used. Let's do a simple example from our sandwich shop, the bagel shop, again. And what I show in this chart is what I forecasted the demand to be for each day of the week and what actually happened. And you can see the forecast looked like Monday through Thursday, it's a pretty steady state 50. And since everyone loves bagels on Friday, I estimated that to go up, the demand to go up, by 50% to 75. You can see what the actual demand values were. So what we're going to do is calculate the mean absolute deviation, the root mean square error, and the mean absolute percent error. So how do I do this? Well, I get the data. And the first thing you should do on any of this stuff is graph it. Take a look at it, because people, humans, are very good at picking up patterns and identifying things visually. So we look at this. And we get a sense of where our forecasts are. And now to find the actual metrics, I'm just going to extend the data table. So this part we already had before. Every row is one of the days. The first column is my forecast. The second column is what actually happened. And then the third column is the error term. It is simply the actual minus the forecast. And you can see in this case, I summed them up here. And this happens to sum out to zero. And then if I look here at the mean, obviously the mean of zero is zero. So that's the error column. Then I add another column, which is just the absolute value of the error term. And you see, it's just to get rid of the sign. And you can see the sum is 54, because I'm not canceling out anymore. And the mean of that is 10.8. Then I add a column that has the square of the error. And you can see that all the way down. And then I also add one with the absolute value of the error over the actual. And so once I have this, the metrics are very easy to figure out. I just sum up each of the columns and I find the averages, or the means. So the mean absolute deviation, I look at the absolute deviation. And it's going to be 10.8, which is just 54 divided by 5. There are five days. The root mean square error, I'm going to take the mean of the squared columns, 126.8, and take a square root. So it's 11.3. And then the MAPE is 21%, which is just the sum 104% divided by 5. So finding these metrics are very easy. We'll talk more about how they trade off, and how you should treat them, and how they interact with each other-- or how they're related to each other rather-- in a little later-- in a future lecture.
