Week 2, Lesson 3 · Video 1: Introduction to Exponential Smoothing

In this lecture, we'll introduce exponential smoothing. And specifically, we'll look at exponential smoothing for both level and trend patterns in data. But before we do this, let's look back at the forecasting models we've already explored. Well, there were differences in the different models that we looked at. They all treated history somewhat the same. Now, they treated the amount of history differently. But how they treated them were very equal. So for example, when I look at the cumulative in moving average models, they applied equal weighting to all the observations. Now, they considered different amounts. So cumulative, considered t, all the data that you had. And moving average, considered M, the last M periods of data. But in each case, it treated either the first or the oldest data equally. They were all treated the same. Now, at the other extreme we had the naive model. And this only had one observation. And it gave 100% of its value of the weighting to the most recent observation. So between these two, where we have over here, you have the equal weighting versus the 100% on the latest. Maybe there's something in between these. And so that's the question. Is there something in between these extremes in how we treat the data? And so the question is, should we treat the historical data differently as it ages? Does the value of data degrade over time? And should we weight newer observations more than the older ones? And this is exactly what exponential smoothing does. Each observation is weighted. And the weights decrease exponentially as they age. And so this is the formula that you're going to get very used to. And let me just talk about it for a second. And we'll go into much more detail. But essentially, you had this smoothing factor alpha. And this alpha will range between 0 and 1. And essentially, this is a weighting factor for how much I'm going to value my xt, which is my latest observation. And then 1 minus alpha is how much my historical forecast is. So what is this equation saying? Remember, x hat means it's a forecast, while the actual x without a hat is the actual observation. So this is saying that the forecast starting in time t for time t plus 1, essentially sitting in this period for the next period, is equal to alpha-- that smoothing factor-- times my most recent observation xt. So that's new information, plus 1 minus alpha times my most recent forecast. And that's what I forecasted in time t minus 1 for t. So if you think of t as today, then this equation is looking at the forecast sitting in today for tomorrow and is equal to alpha times what happened today times 1 minus alpha for what I forecasted yesterday for today. So you might ask yourself, why is this called exponential smoothing? Well, if we look at the equation and we kind of explode it a little bit, and so we look at this term back here-- which is, remember, the forecast in time t minus 1 for period t-- well, we know what that's going to be. That's going to be equal to alpha times what actually happened in t minus 1, yesterday, times 1 minus alpha times the forecast of what happened essentially two days ago for yesterday. So we can keep working backwards. And here, if I plug this back in for this, I get this term. And then I just simplify it a little bit, clean it up a little bit. Pause the video if you need to see how it works. It's just straight algebra. But then we can continue to substitute. So I find what the real-- what the equation is for this estimate. And I forecast, and I add that back in, and keep continuing to substitute. What do I end up with? Well I end up with this general form. Let me just clean some of this up so it's not distracting. And so what is this saying down here? It's saying that the forecast sitting in time t for time t plus 1. So it's the forecast sitting in today for tomorrow is equal to alpha times 1 minus alpha to the 0th, which reduces to 1, times what happened today, the xt. Plus alpha times 1 minus alpha to the 1st times what happened yesterday, xt minus 1. Plus alpha times 1 minus alpha squared times what happened at xt minus 2, two days ago, and so forth. You can see a pattern. You should actually call this geometric smoothing, because this is a geometric progression. So what I want you to see is as I get older in time-- and these are the observations, this xt, xt minus 1, xt minus 2, xt minus 3, these are not the forecasts. These are what actually happened at those times. And so as I go to the right here in this equation, as I go this way-- and this would keep on going forever-- then that means the x's are older. They're older observations. And so the coefficients, you can see, get smaller. Alpha times 1 minus alpha squared is bigger than alpha times 1 minus alpha to the cube, and so forth. So as I get older, that coefficient gets smaller. So this is the weighting. So you might ask yourself, well, how much is that weighting. Well, if we look at different alphas-- and here you can see each column is a different alpha, alpha 0.2, alpha 0.4, alpha 0.6-- and each row is aged observation. So t is the most recent. Then t minus 1 is one period ago, two periods ago, three periods ago, so forth. If I have an alpha equals 0.2, then I treat the most recent observation worth 20%. And then a combined 80% is for all the history. And you can see how it works down is what the ratios are, what it turns into. So essentially, this term is t minus 1 rho is essentially saying alpha of 0.2 is alpha 0.2 times 1 minus 0.2, 0.8 to the first. And so you can see what each of these are for the coefficients. So now, as you see how the alpha gets bigger, what is that doing? Well, it's putting more weight on the more recent observations. You see for observation t, an alpha of 0.6 gives 60% of the weight to the most recent observation, while an alpha of 0.2 gives only a 0.2, or 20%. And so if I looked down to, say, the fifth oldest observation, or t minus 5, you can see what this translates into. It gets progressively less weight. For an alpha equals 0.2, it's 0.06. For an alpha 0.6, because it puts so much weight up here on the most recent, it goes down to the 0.006144. So what is this alpha doing? This alpha is essentially saying how much should I value, how much should I weight the more recent information-- oops, let me go back-- versus the older data. And so the alpha is the tool, the smoothing tool. So if I want to see this graphically, here I have the age of observation. So this is the-- this would be x sub t. This is t minus 1, minus 2, minus 3, and so forth. And on the vertical axis is the effective weight. You can see how for an alpha of 0.1-- that's that heavy dark line that's right here. At x sub t, which is the 0 here for the age, it's the most recent, it's 0.1. The next one is an alpha of 0.3. And you can see for the most recent period, it's a 0.3. Let me just bring some of these other ones out. This is an alpha 0.5, an alpha of 0.7, and an alpha of 0.9. What's happening here? As my alpha gets bigger, I put more of my weighting on the more recent data. I say for an alpha of 0.9, I'm saying 90% of my forecast is going to be what happened in the most recent period, what happened yesterday. So if you think about this, what this alpha value is doing, it's really a trade-off. off. And it's trading off the new information, the weighting of the new information I have, any new observations with the old information, stuff that I had in the past. Because this term, this x hat t minus 1t, encapsulates everything in my history. This is a beautiful thing about exponential smoothing, because I only have to capture and track two pieces of data-- my most recent and then my most recent forecast. Because this x hat t minus 1t term captures all the other old historical data. And so what the alpha does, one way to think about it is think about it as it approaches its limits, either 0 or 1. When alpha hits 1, what's going to happen? We're almost naive. We're leading to fast smoothing. It's going to be very nervous, volatile. It's that naive kind of forecast. As it goes the other way and approaches 0, it's slower. It's calm, it's stayed, it's closer to that cumulative forecast where things get weighted, not equally, but much more equally than if I had a 0.9, which puts all the weight up on the front at the newer information. So essentially, you can think of the alpha as controlling the speed of the forecasting. And we'll use this and talk about this a lot as we develop the rest of the exponential smoothing models.
