Week 7, Lesson 1 · Video 11

[NO SPEECH] OK, in this segment, I want to talk about how you select which distribution to use. Now, there are some formal methods for testing whether an empirical set of data actually fits a certain theoretical distribution. And the most common method is called the Chi-Square Test, where you group all the data into buckets-- say, units of five. So if your demand, say, goes from 20 to 100, you group it into buckets of, say, 10. And you count how many observations fall into each of those buckets. Then you calculate the number of observations you expect to fit in each of those buckets, if you followed a certain distribution-- say, a normal distribution with a given mean and standard deviation. And then you compare how many observed observations fall in, versus expected, for each of the buckets. And you use the Chi-Square metric, where you have the number observed minus the number expected squared, divided by the number of expected. And you sum that up. And then you can go to tables and find the p-value to see if it actually fits. Now, this is something we cover in a previous course-- in SC0X. And in this course, I'm not going to expect you to fit any distributions. I just wanted to remind you that there are ways to do this. And in practice, you might want to see, does this fit the Poisson. Does this fit the normal, and see how close it is. But I've had projects where people spend forever-- huge amounts of time-- on finding that if their data fits some obscure probability distribution. And it's not always worth the effort. Remember, a lot of times, the purpose of these models are to give you insights into the behavior, not to be exactly precise. So there's always a trade-off of how much time you spend making sure your data fits a certain distribution between just assuming it, and see what the results and the insights are. So what I do want to spend just a couple of minutes on is talking about some rules of thumb that I've used when selecting different domain distributions. So suppose your demand is all positive integers of low value-- 0, 1, 2, 3, 4-- whatever. Then you probably want to try Poisson-- see what it looks like, especially if you have some kind of right tail. Because typically, for most things in supply chain, whether it's demand, transit time, any kind of time element, you usually have a longer right tail than a left tail. Your right tail is the extreme events. And your left tail, a lot of times, especially for transportation, is dictated by physics. You can only go so fast. So if you have a distribution that kind of looks like this, try Poisson. And you'll see it again when we talk about slow-moving inventory items or high value items. And you also see it for arrivals to a process. Now, what if your demand is a bunch of large numbers-- say, greater than 20? You don't care about integrality. And the coefficient of variation-- the COV-- is small-- less than 0.3. Remember, coefficient of variation is the standard deviation over the mean. Then you probably want to use a normal. Normal distributions are widely used. It's kind of the default or the go-to distribution. One caveat, though, that you have to be careful of is if the COV is too large, then you're going to be assuming some negative values. For example, suppose I have a distribution normally distributed. And I take it, and I find that the mean is 12, and the standard deviation is 8. If I just assume it's normally distributed, then what that's going to do is that's going to assume-- this will be 0-- 7% of the demand will actually be negative. So that probably means it's not really distributed normally. Because your demand technically can't be negative. It probably has some kind of long tail. And you might want to use a different distribution. There are some more sophisticated distributions, such as a truncated normal or a log normal, that we're not going to cover in this course. They can handle that. But the way that I typically handle it is with the triangle. But we'll talk about that in a second. If your demand looks relatively even or uniform over a specified range, then use the uniform distribution. Whether it's a continuous or discrete, it depends on what the range is. If the range is only six values, then go discrete. If your range is like 200, then you probably want to use continuous. So it works well. It's an easy assumption, you know, for initial estimates. I'll use this for some single period problems you'll see in future lectures. And then finally, if you've got no data or there's only anecdotal memories, then use the triangle distribution. It's a great one to have in your back pocket. And it's a good back of the envelope tool just to sanity check a new situation. Because all you need is the min, the max, and the mode. And you can do a lot of really good things with it. So these are just some quick rules of thumb that I've used for selecting domain distributions. [NO SPEECH]
