Week 3, Lesson 2 · Video 3

So we introduced the six different types of new product categories and now we have to ask the question, so what? Why does it matter? Well, it matters because we want to treat them differently and they have different characteristics. Here are the different types of products that we introduced, the new to world, new to company, the line extensions and product improvements. And remember, the difference there is line extensions complement the existing products. Product improvements replace those existing products. And then the last two, product repositioning and cost reductions. In the marketplace, the percent of introductions range and they vary differently. This came from multiple sources, so that's why there's a range of these values. But generally, we're looking at 20% to 30% on new to company, new to world, those highly innovative products that have never been there before or are new to the company. About half or a little over half, almost to two thirds, are extensions of existing products or improvements of existing products. And then you have the remaining 15% to almost 20% that are product repositioning or cost reductions. So you can see that the lion's share falls within extensions and improvements of existing products. Now, we have different accuracy of the forecasting for these, as you would expect. As you would probably expect, the hardest to forecast are the new to world and new to company. What I have here is the forecast accuracy, which is just 1 minus the MAPE, the Mean Absolute Percent Error. You can see the worst are these new to world or new to company because you don't have much history. And you can see the best are the cost reductions, and that makes sense because we'd think that we already have the product, we know how it behaves at one price. We should have at least a little bit of insight into how it will behave if I change that price. And you can see how they fall accordingly. As I move from more innovative up here, new to world, new to market, down to the more established or existing products, my forecast accuracy improves, and that makes sense. We can also look at the length of time it takes to launch, and we'll talk more about the new product launch process in a second. The new to world and new to company take the most time. As you can see, it gets less and less time involved as I move down. And then success rate. This might be surprising to some people because usually you hear only one in 20 products are successful. Actually, the success rate is much higher than people think. It depends how it's measured, and success is measured in the eye of the beholder. This is based off of some studies that have looked at how companies deem success, and the criteria is generally being in the market still generating positive revenue after two years. So it's still out there. It wasn't pulled out after six months or a year. And you can see the new to world, new to company products, roughly 40% to 60% success rate. And as you would expect, as I move down to these repositioning and cost reductions, it gets a little bit higher. But overall, they're fairly successful. So the idea that only one out of every 20 products are successful is not really true. The studies don't bear that out. We see that they differ in terms of how accurate I can forecast them and all those other things, but still, why do I care? Well, let's put this into a different framework. This framework comes from Ken Kahn in his book, and he says when we look at new products, we want to look at the product-market mix because a new product, the technology is either new or current, or the market is either a new market or established in the existing or current market. So you can overlay the different product types here, and you can think of the new to company and new to world as both a new technology and new market. You can think of line extensions as being a new technology. I'm adding a flavor or adding something to it, but I'm staying in the same market, so I'm staying in the current market. Product repositionings. I'm staying with the current technology. Think of Bayer Aspirin. It didn't change, but I go to a new market, the stroke prevention and heart care. And then the least innovative, or the least new, is cost reductions and product improvements where I'm staying with the current technology, modifying it slightly, and I'm staying in my current market. I'm not going after a new market. So you have how the different products overlay, but they're introduced for different reasons. The strategies differ. So if I introduce something to a new market and new technology, what am I doing? I'm trying to get into a whole new unrelated business. I'm expanding. I'm diversifying. This is what Apple did when it introduced or jumped into the phone space and jumped into the portable music space. It's diversifying its market. It's trying to get into new industries. Up here when I introduce a line extension, I'm trying to diversify my portfolio. I'm staying in my current market, but I'm trying to get more people to use my products within that same market. This is where flavors get added and things like that. I'm adding another flavor that someone might be interested in. In the market development, what I'm really focused on is expanding my sales volume. I'm repositioning into new markets. And finally, in this top left quadrant is market penetration. What am I really doing here? I'm increasing market share. I'm reducing my price to increase market share for my current market with my current technology. Each of these strategies differ based on the mix of product in market and they need a different type of forecasting. Starting up here in the top left where I have existing technology in an existing market, you can think that my forecasting approach would be the most quantitative. I'd look at similar situations using time series analysis, regression, other models because I have a lot of history because I've been operating in this market for a while so I kind of know how they behave, and I've been offering with this technology, so I have some history there. When I get into line extensions, the approach here is to look for similar things. I introduced a blueberry flavor. Maybe I want to see how the cranberry flavor did previously. I've got some previous experience of looks like analysis or analogous forecasting. I can look at similar things and maybe make an extension and extrapolate how that behaved to how this new product will behave. When I get down here to market development, I'm really looking at, how do I understand this new market? My forecasting will focus on larger trends, how those customers and how that market behaves, to understand that specific new market environment because that's the big difference. I'm going to a new marketplace so I need to understand that. And then finally, for diversification, when I'm talking new to company or new to world products, the forecasting approach is very ephemeral. It's more scenario planning and understanding driving factors and uncertainties. So you can think as I move from this top left down to this top right, I move from more objective metrics, hardcore analytics, to much more subjective ones down here. Now, I'm not saying that down here when I introduce new products to the world, that I don't have some rigorous analytics, but you don't have as much history so you're doing some more subjective kind of work, as opposed to up here for market penetration, where I have some history to work with and I'm going to mind that. One last question to finish up this video is to ask the question, why do firms even launch new products in the first place? This is a very easy question. It's because that's where all the money is. Companies earn between 20% and 48% of their revenue from new products launched within the last two years. Profit anywhere from 20% to 50%, depending on the industry. If you look at different industries, for fast moving consumer goods, things that go through grocery stores, their revenue and their profit is roughly around 24% driven by products introduced in the last two years. You can see that this is pretty significant for many. If you look at technology, it's almost half of revenue and 44% of profit driven by products introduced in the last two years. These numbers are only going up. These numbers are about eight to 10 years old, so you can imagine that it's increasing because as we observed, product life cycle is shortening. People are introducing new products, and it's not because the products are breaking or falling apart. It's because these products are unable to maintain their pricing, so you see dramatic price drops. If you look at chips going into phones, you see the dramatic price drop there over a very short period of time. Most products will continue to drop, and therefore when that price drops, a new product needs to get introduced. This is why firms launch new products. The next thing we'll talk about is how do firms go about introducing new products.
