Week 8, Lesson 2 · Video 5

Now let's do an example of setting up Periodic Inventory Review Policy using the ShopCo example. So ShopCo is a fictional name for a company, and this is based on a project we did a couple years ago up here at MIT. They are a large North American retailer, and they focus mainly on home improvement products. And they have several thousand stores throughout North America. Interestingly though, each store operates independently in terms that they order and receive product directly from their suppliers. So it's a direct-to-store Replenishment Model. So one of the suppliers that we're going to deal with sells drills, electric drills. And this is called Hurricane. And so Hurricane sells a wide number of different drills, but on average, they cost ShopCo about $75 each. So that's our c value, that's our Cost per Item, $75 per drill. And each store uses Periodic Review Policies to order directly from Hurricane, and Hurricane delivers directly to each store. And for Inventory Policy, they use a Holding Charge, or an h of 15%. And we're going to assume a 52 week year. So what are we trying to figure out? Two things. First, we want to find out an (R,S) Policy, our ordering policy here for Hurricane Drills for store number 1-301, fictional store. And then we're also going to try to figure out what the expected annual cost based on that policy will be for Cycle, and for Safety Stock. OK. What else do we know? We know what the forecasted annual demand is for these drills, roughly we expect it to be 3,400, with a standard deviation of 400 units. Lead Time is one week, so when I place the order, it will show up one week later. I only check every four weeks my Review Period, or R, is four weeks. I have an expectation of Level of Service for the Cycle Service Level to be 95%. So I only want to stock out 1 every 20 Replenishment Cycles. So two other points here that are making this much more realistic, we haven't talked about before, is that Hurricane has a Minimum Order Quantity, or an MOQ. This is something very common that suppliers or vendors have, and that is if I'm going to order something, it has to be of a certain size for them to actually deliver it. And so in this case, our Minimum Order Quantity is 240 drills. So if I came out and it determined that I only need to order 100, I would still have to order up to 240, or pay some kind of penalty, maybe, to the supplier, or pay for more expensive transportation. But this idea of a Minimum Order Quantity is very common. And then the other point that we added here, is that orders need to be in multiples of 12. So if it comes out that I want to order 15 drills, I actually have to decide whether I want to order 12 or 24. Why is that? Because a lot of times you want to order things in full pallets or full cases. It's much easier to deliver a full pallet of material, than it is to do eaches, or onesies. And so, most suppliers will give you an order quantity, and they'll say it prevents them from having to break down a case or a pallet. So these two concepts of a Minimum Order Quantity, and then the multiple that I have to order in, whether it's a number in a case, a number in a carton, a number in a pallet, are very common in real life. So this my situation. So how do I solve it? Well let's first look at the Ordering Policy. So first step, do the transformations. So instead of finding Q, which is simply the expected Cycle Stock I need during Replenishment Cycle, I'm going to multiply this by D times R, which is actually the same thing. So that's going to be 3,400 multiplied by my Review Period, which is four weeks, or four over 52 years. This turns out to be 261.5, but I'm going to round it up to 264. Why? Because we have to order in quantities of 12, or multiples of 12. And 264 is the closest multiple of 12 to 261. Now I want to find the Coverage Time, which is going to be the Review Period R, plus the Lead Time L, which is five weeks total. And then that's going to be 0.0962 years, which is not a really useful number to know. What I might want to know is the number of coverage periods that I need to have covered in the course of a year. And that's simply 52 weeks of the year, divided by the length of time, the five weeks, and that gives me 10.4. Remember when we started talking about how do I go from a short period to a long period, or a long period to a short period? This n is the number of short periods that fall within the long period. So this makes it easy for me to determine my expected Demand Over the Lead plus Review Period Time. And that's going to be the expected quantity over the course of a year, 3,400 divided by 10.4, that n, which gives me 327 units. And my standard deviation of demand over that Lead plus Review Period, is going to be 400, the standard deviation of that demand over the year divided by square root of n, or square root of 10.4. And that gives me 124 units. OK. Now I have everything I need. So I want to find my k. I'm given the Cycle Service Level of 0.95. So I can go to the tables or go to a spreadsheet, determine what that is, and it's going to come up to be 1.644 and something else. And for this purpose, I'm going to round it off to two significant digits, so all the calculations that I show after this assume that k is 1.64. I round it, I cut it off. Once I have that, then I can figure out what my Order-Up-To, or big S is. It's going to be the expected Demand Over that Lead plus Review Period, plus that Safety Factor k times the standard deviation of the Demand Over that Lead plus Review Period. And that turns out to be 530 units. So my policy is order-up-to 530 units every four weeks. But we also wanted to find out the Cost of Cycle and Safety Stock. So the cost of the Cycle Stock is going to be the cost of holding excess inventory c_e, times my average amount of inventory I expect to have on hand over the course of the Replenishment Period, which is just DR over Q, just like we did Q over 2. Now c_e, I can figure out by multiplying 75, or the c value, times 15%, that h so we talked about. And this comes out to be $1,485 a year. And then I can look at the cost of Safety Stock, which is again, that cost of holding inventory c_e times my Safety Factor k, times my standard deviation of Demand Over Lead plus Review Period. And that turns out to be 2,288. So now I've determined my Order Policy. I've determined the costs. So if you can do an (s,Q) System, you can do a Periodic Review Policy as well.
