Week 4 · Recitation: Inventory Management · Video 2

So let's look at the first question. What are the annual purchase, holding, order, and total cost for the current policy? How frequently does the Coop place its order? Let's look into the information that has been given on the first line of the problem statement that I read out to you, which is, the Coop sells 5,000 units annually. What does that imply? Well, we can assume that these 5,000 units are the annual demand. And it orders in batches of 500 units. So what is this 500? Well, this becomes our Q. And the Coop pays a price of $2 per unit. Well this becomes our purchase or variable cost. In order to place an order, the Coop pays $100, which means this $100 is our cost of transaction, or the ordering price. What else? Well, we see, the holding charge, or the carrying cost, has also been given as $0.28 per dollar of inventory per year. There's also, interestingly, a selling price and the Coop sells for $10 per unit. Well, does this selling price matter or impact in any way the inventory policy? The answer is not. So this is something that's not relevant. We can ignore it- So this has no impact on the inventory policy. Quick recap. So what's the formula or how do we calculate the total cost? The total cost is the purchase cost, plus the ordering cost, plus the holding cost, plus the shortage cost. Well, demand has been fairly stable. No variations. And for this problem, let's assume there is no shortage cost. So in the next few slides, let's go ahead and calculate the purchase cost, the ordering cost, and the holding cost. Let's calculate the purchase cost here. What has been given to us is the purchase price per unit item, or c, is $2. So what are the number of units that we are buying in a year? So number of units purchased in a year, this number has been given to us in the problem as 5,000. Pretty straightforward. So 5,000 units. Every unit costs $2. So total purchase cost then becomes 5,000 units times $2 per unit, which gives us $10,000. So this is our annual total purchase cost. Let's move onto the ordering cost. So what has been given to us is the cost of transaction. Or to place a single order, it cost dollar $100 to place an order. How many orders do we need in a year? How do we calculate that? Well, we know the demand is 5,000. The order in batches of 500. This gives us number of orders as 5,000 divided by 500 is 10. So the total ordering cost then becomes 10 times number $100, which is equal to 1,000. Pretty straight forward. Let's try to calculate the holding cost now. So what is the cost of holding excess inventory, or c_e? Let's try to do the units first. So we know this is dollars per unit per time, $1 per unit time as we call it. And how did we get here? We get it by c h , where c is you purchase or variable cost, and h is the holding charge. So we know that c has been given to us as $2 per unit, and h has been given to us as $0.28 per dollar inventory per year. So our c_e then becomes $0.56 per unit time. OK? So let's move on. And this c_e or c_h is the cost of holding excess inventory. How much of this inventory are we holding? So quick recap. If you recall the sawtooth model that we did, the sawtooth graph that we did, and using that we calculated the average inventory on hold. And how much was that? Well, if Q is our order quantity, average inventory on hold becomes Q/2 units. So now that we know that Q has been given to us as 500, we can calculate Q / 2, which is our average inventory on hold. If you know this, can we calculate the total annual holding cost? Yes. Should be straightforward. So let's calculate the total annual holding cost, which now becomes c_e times inventory on hold, which is-- you have your $0.56 units per time times your average inventory-- 250 units. And this gives us $140 per time- time being in year, we get our annual holding cost for this item. So now that we have the purchase cost, the ordering cost, and the holding cost, let's calculate the total cost, which again, is pretty straightforward. Purchase cost plus ordering cost plus holding cost, and we have these numbers now, which is 10,000 plus ordering cost we calculated as 1,000, plus the holding cost, we just came out to be 140. This gives us $11,140. OK. So that's the total cost for the year. And the last question that we had was, what is the order frequency? I think we have already calculated this. And let me do it one more time. So we are aware that we make 10 orders in a year. Or we want to say 10 orders every 12 months. And then surely this means is one order every 1.2 month. And that's our order frequency.
