Week 4, Lesson 3 · Video 2

All right. So let's get started. And we're going to start with non-instantaneous lead time. I'm going to say, as I said before, I'm going to change only that the lead time is a constant. So when I place an order, it doesn't show up right away. It takes a little bit of time. So let's look at the inventory charts. Demand is still deterministic and uniform. I'm going to place these orders, and now, instead of receiving it instantaneously, when I place the order here-- just draw this down-- it looks like the lead time, L, is going to be that much longer before it actually shows up. So L is the length of time it takes between the order being placed and it being received. And so what this is going to do to my inventory chart on the bottom, it's going to create two types of inventory. So the first is Inventory on Hand, which we've been playing with. That's the solid green line. And this is simply how much inventory i have on hand and it's going to show up exactly when it's received. So it's the same saw tooth we've always had. However, when I place an order, right now, I've got this inventory. And it's this inventory here in under this dotted line. And this is known as my Pipeline Inventory. We talked about this earlier, in one of the first slides on inventory. And so this pipeline inventory is inventory I placed an order for, and I committed to. It just hasn't shown up yet. So the question is how do I handle that? How do I take that into account? Because, as we'll see, I need to look at more than just what inventory I have on hand, I need to start looking at my whole Inventory Position. And so let's talk about that. So here's just a little blow up of the inventory chart, and the horizontal axis, again, is Time. The vertical axis is Inventory Level. And we saw the two charts. And what I did here in red is I just overlaid what's known as the Inventory Position. And it's simply equal to the Inventory on Hand plus the Pipeline Inventory. Now, later on, when we allow backorders, it'll change a little bit because I'll have to subtract off what's already been backordered, and already being committed, and things like that. But for right now, the Inventory Position is simply the amount of inventory I have on hand plus the amount that I've ordered and hasn't an arrived yet, that's the Pipeline Inventory. So the question we might want to ask-- what is my average amount of pipeline inventory? And so what we're looking for is for one replenishment time. Each cycle, I want to know how much of this pipeline inventory should I expect to have? Because now I've got two different types of inventory. I've got that pipeline inventory that I just highlighted. But I've also got this cycle stock that we're all comfortable with this. Let me just double-hatch that. There we go. So I've got these two different types of inventory. And I can control them with very different managerial actions. This is why we look at functional roles of inventory. So let's go in and let's try to understand what's the average amount of pipeline inventory I have during each replenishment cycle. So we notice, during the length of this cycle, which is T*, that the pipeline inventory changes. There's two periods. There's a period of time-- and let me just mark it here-- where I have no pipeline inventory. Right? Because nothing's been ordered yet. And then I've got a period of that cycle time where I have pipeline inventory. So let's just break those in half and start with a time when I'm in transit, when I have something ordered. So how much will I have there? Well I have Q*, because that's what I order each time. We don't know how we're going to calculate that yet, but when I place an order, I'm placing it for Q*. And so the next question is how long will that last? What percentage of time of the cycle will it be? Well, if my T*, let's just say my T* is 10 days, and my lead time, let's say my lead time is 4 days, then I'm going to be in transit 4 out of 10 days or 40%. So L/T* tells me the percent of that cycle time that I'm going to have inventory in transit. So now let's look at the second time. And this is the time when I don't have any inventory in transit. How much will I have in pipeline? 0. Right? I'll have 0 because nothing's in the pipeline. How often will that happen? Well it's going to be 1 - L/T*, which in this simple example would be 60% of the time. So I just take an expected value here, so for the time when I have inventory in the pipeline, Q* times L/T*, and when I don't, and if I just carry it through, what I end up with is my average pipeline inventory is D (the demand rate per year), times L (my lead time in units of year). Always make sure the units match here. But D times L tells me my average amount of pipeline inventory for each replenishment cycle. So what is my average inventory in the system then? It's going to be that cycle stock, which we know very well is Q/2 plus the pipeline inventory, DL, and so now I know what my average inventory is. And again, I've got two different types of inventory, cycle stock and pipeline. Now in real life, for pipeline inventory, we might want to consider who owns it, when. Does the vendor own it when they deliver it or do you pick it up and take it. But in this case, we always want to, since inventory is coming, we want to consider it in our planning. And so later on, we'll talk about different payment terms, and what that means is, when you take ownership of the inventory. But from here out, until I say otherwise, just assume that you're taking ownership. You want to consider that inventory coming into your pipeline when you manage your total inventory. OK. So let's go a little bit deeper. And let's figure out: what's your new total cost function? So this should look very familiar. My total cost is a function of Q, my order quantity, and consists of the four main elements-- purchase cost, the ordering cost, cost per order times the number of orders expected over the course of a year, and then, I've got my holding cost. But I've got two separate elements. I've got my cost for holding an item for unit time for a year, and this Q/2 is my cycle stock. And this D/L is my pipeline inventory. And then here I've got my shortage cost. So the question is, what's relevant when I'm making my decision for Q*? So as I look through, is the purchase cost relevant? No. There's no Q in there. So the purchase price, the purchase cost of each item, does not affect what my Q is going to be. Order cost? Sure, that's still going to be relevant. If I look at the inventory cost, well the cycle stock--- sure, that's still going to be relevant. But look at the pipeline inventory. Does the length of the lead time impact what my Q should be? Is there any relationship? And the answer is no. So the pipeline inventory is not part of the relevant costs for determining what my optimal order quantity is going to be. And for here, same thing here-- it hasn't changed for the shortage costs, plus we're still assuming there are no stock-outs. So my total relevant cost is going to be the same as it was when I had lead time of 0, or instantaneous lead time. So what's my new Q*? Same as the old one. It has not changed. So lead time, constant lead time, does not affect my order quantity. What's my new optimal policy? Well now, some things will change because if I blow this up again-- and again this is just a simple inventory chart-- I got my inventory on hand, and then I've got my pipeline inventory. Again, pipeline, and then here, it's going to be cycle stock. Let me just double hatch it. And then my inventory position, which is just the sum of the two. And so my policy is going to look at-- I want to determine WHEN I will place my order. Well I know if I place my order here, it will show up L units of time later. And then what is that point in time? How much inventory will I have left here? What would this point be? Well if my demand is at a rate of D and it's going to L units of time, then this point is simply D times L. So my policy is going to change, and it's going to be: Order Q* units (because that hasn't changed, right-- the quantity hasn't changed), when the inventory position = D times L. Two things are different here. One is "Inventory Position", not "Inventory on Hand". Right? You're adding IN the order. What if you didn't? What if you said this was inventory on hand? Well then you'd keep ordering when I'm down here because my inventory on hand is still less than or equal to DL while I'm waiting for something to come in. So it's "Inventory Position", not "Inventory on Hand" when it's = D times L, because you order then, it'll show up in L units of time. Now the other interesting thing to note is that I could still have it as: Order Q* units every T* time periods (because the next time I order is going to somewhere around here, and this distance is still T*). All I've done is shifted things left. So what's the net effect here? The big takeaway is adding in a lead time does not change the optimal order quantity. It does change the policy by changing the timing of when I would place that order. But that's it.
