Week 8, Lesson 3 · Video 8

OK, let's finish our discussion of order picking by talking about strategies. And mainly, I'm going to focus on strategies for picking cases, or picking eaches. Because if you're picking a palette, it's a one to one. And we kind of went over that. And so here we're focused on multiple things going into one order. And so let's do a simple example. I've got this DC here, and I have 24 locations, and there's one item, one SKU, in each of them, A through X. I'm going to have three orders. And the first order has six items, I need a product B, an E, a J, a K, O, and a V. Order two, D, C, B, Q, R, and S. And then you can see order three. So essentially I want to fill or pick three orders from this warehouse. Now there are different strategies you can take. The simplest one, and the one we all know very well-- it's intuitive-- is a single picker to a single order. So what does this mean? Well, this means I've got one person who's going to pick the blue order. And so their path might look something like this. Now all my paths will start at the bottom, at six o'clock and we move clockwise, just to make it simple. So the person would walk down here, pick up something from B, go over across the aisle to E, go over here to J, and then K, around to O, pick that one, then to V, and then bring it on home. So that would be their pick path. And so they could find the most efficient path to pick up that whole order. And you do the same thing for the red order. This could be a separate person or the same person after they've finished the first job. And so here you go from D to C to B, over to Q, R, and S, and then you're done. And then finally the green order, and you get a sense of it. And so you pick from B, to I, to J, over to pick from T, S, U, V, and then back in. OK, so this is the most simple strategy. And so what are we doing here? Well this is very similar to grocery shopping. Anyone who's gone to a store with the list does single picker, single order strategy. And so this is really good for a low number of lines per order, low number of things that you're getting per order. It's good for short pick paths. And the beautiful thing here, there's no need at the end to sort or marry different orders together. Each pick path is a single order. And, unfortunately, the expected arrival time, or the distance per item, can be quite high. So think of the case, for example, where you have to pick from D, A, U, and X. And that's your order. You're covering the entire DC to cover that order. So that's one strategy-- single picker, single order. And you can just think about if you have these orders in, you would find the shortest path, right? That's a pretty straightforward thing, about what order sequence you do it in. Obviously, for order one you wouldn't go to V, and then to E, then over to K, right? You find the best path through. What we're trying to figure out are the best picking strategies. So the next strategy is a single picker, but they're doing multiple orders. This is sometimes called batch. And so in this case I'd have to take all these orders in and create a single pick list. So what I've done now is I've taken all the orders and I'm sequencing them, so it makes sense for me to pick him in a certain order. And so here's the path-- again, I'm starting at around six o'clock and moving clockwise. So I hit D, C, pick up three items of B, one of E, one of I, two of J, and so on. So at the end of this I'm going to have my big shopping cart full of all of these items, and I have to do some other things now. So this is very similar to grocery shopping for many people at one time. Sometimes-- I've done this before-- where I'm shopping for a friend as well as myself. So I have my cart, and I put a basket in the cart, right? And so I put things off their list and off my list to many in the cart or the basket. Now this strategy, this batch strategy, the expected travel time, or the distance per item, is reduced, because this is one big tour. Instead of doing three tours, I'm doing one. It does require some extra effort, though-- sorting at front for the sequencing, and sorting at the back, so that when things come back, I need to know, OK, which one does this-- D, does this go to order one, two, or three? So you have to sort them back out. Now you can sort this in two ways. You can sort in the strategy that I described, where on the cart, I put them in their different slots so I can keep the orders separate. Or you put them all in one basket and you sort at the very end. And it really is a function of the things you're getting, the equipment that you have. Now this strategy works for both that picker to stock, which I'm describing here, as well as a stock to picker system, where the material comes to you. It could be, for example, in a situation where you have the racks on a robot, it comes to you. You might be building multiple orders at one time. And so this strategy works for both. This is the batch strategy. The last strategy I want to talk about is called zone. And so for here, you're going to have all these orders come in, but the idea is I'm going to divide them into zone pick lists. And my zones here are each of the aisles. So there's the pink aisle, the blue aisle, and the orange aisle. And I'm assuming that there's one person who runs each of those, or is dedicated. And so I'm taking my orders-- and I can take 30 orders and it doesn't matter. I turn them into three pick lists, a pick list for each zone. And so each zone would go and pick their own. So zone one, the pink, would go to D, C, V, A and E. And then, you can see for the blue, zone two, they pick K, J, I, and O. And the final pick, the orange, goes T, S, R, Q, U, V, and then N. Now what are the strengths and weaknesses here? Well, again, in the grocery example this is the same thing as if multiple people are shopping and they go off to a certain area. So I've done this before, where you have one person who goes to the fruit and vegetables, the other person is going to the packaged goods, and you each have your own separate little list. You've divided the store into zones. It's a divide and conquer. Now for a lot of larger warehouses this makes sense, because you might have orders come in with a lot of high line counts-- they have a lot of different things getting into them. Instead of sending one person through the entire pick area, you have the focus with these zones. The expected travel time is reduced, it minimizes congestion, and also some people note that it minimizes socializing, because, you know, you're picking. It's not the most exciting job in the world. And so if you're constantly with people you're chatting, and it might slow you down. If in a zone, you own that zone, and so it's a little bit different. Now you gain some things here. If you own a zone, you know the zone. You get to know it very well. And so if you have one area you pretty much can become the expert there. However, by dividing it into zones, you lose something. And you lose this completion accountability. So no single person now is responsible for making sure the order is complete. We've divided it up. So every zone, they might do their pick list, but no one is looking at the order level anymore. And that's an important thing, because you really want to have that accountability. And it does require sorting and consolidation of items at the end. So I have all these different zones, I have to have an extra step here to tie them together. And it does allow for simultaneous filling of orders. One of the challenges here is balancing the workload. So every zone won't always have the equal amount of demand. And so that's a challenge to balance that out. However, you have these three strategies, general strategies-- single pick, single order, batch, and zone. And depending on which strategy you use, it really is a function of the type of products that you're shipping, the equipment you have. But I just wanted to make sure you see these three different types of strategies out there for picking.
