Week 10, Lesson 1 · Video 11

All right. What are the key takeaways here? Well, there's three big ones that we went through. I started kind of theoretical, and hopefully, I brought it down to actual applications. We talked about the four fundamental transportation operations-- loading/unloading; line-haul move, one-to-one; vehicle routing, one-to-many-- we have that local tours-- and then facility sorting, which allows you to have many to many. And what drives those is the underlying economies. And there are three economies that I talked about-- economies of scale, as I do more the per unit cost goes down. Economies of scope-- if I do product A as well as product B, then the costs for each individual item per unit goes down. Complementarity-- think about forehaul and backhaul for transportation. If I go from A to B, my cost is going to be cheaper if I go from B back to A. And then economies of density, which means as I have things closer together and more of them, my cost to serve them will go down. And think about that approximation that we did where the local tour distances-- K times the square root of NA, where N is the number of stops and A is the area. As either N gets higher or A gets higher, it increases the cost of that total distance by the square root of the product. So it doesn't increase linearly. It increases by the square root. So that's the economies of density. And then we combined all those. The reason why we combined them all is so I could talk about the two economic modes of transportation because everyone talks about the tactical ones. You know, boats go in water, planes go in the air, trucks go on the road with wheels, and so forth. But that's not how you use them as a shipper. You use them either as a direct or as a consolidated mode. And so what I wanted to focus on are the economic modes because this is how you will use them in practice. For direct-- these are the one-to-one moves, which are always best to do if you can fully utilize that trailer-- you only have a single touch, and it's moving directly. There's no circuity involved. And so if you have a direct move, you're worried about economies of scope. It's all about balance. Think about taxis. It's a taxicab, so you have to worry about where it goes next. So as a shipper, you want to look and maybe locate your facilities in areas where it's easy to find a backhaul. It's another way of thinking of network design. Consolidated is a little different. It's the one-to-many, many-to-one, many-to-many where I'm consolidating things-- whether in the vehicle or in a terminal-- and there is strong economies of scale and density. As I ship more things, that's better for me because then I can consolidate that line-haul movement in between. And these are like buses. Directs are like taxis. Consolidators are like buses. So whenever you're dealing with a transportation problem, think about what it is. Am I talking about taxis, or am I talking about buses? All right. Then we went through some examples of using those concepts. And hopefully some of those stuck with you, and hopefully you saw some parallels maybe to inventory-- when we used the probability of distribution to understand some of those things-- and some of the other concepts. Hopefully you enjoyed this, and you can use this in your daily life in transportation with your company. Thanks. Have fun.
