Week 8 · Welcome to Week 8

Welcome back to SC1x Supply Chain fundamentals. This week, we're going to continue our discussion on inventory. And we're going to extend beyond the two models that we've looked at, the EOQ, where it was deterministic demand. And then the Newsvendor problem, where we had random demand for a single period. And we're going to look at cases where we have random demand. But we now look in an infinite horizon, and we're going to focus back on lost sales. So it's kind of a combination of these two methods. And these are the most commonly used forms of inventory policies out there. And so let's take an example. And let's look what happens here. I've got my demand. And like we said, it's random. But we're going to assume it's level. So we're going to ignore trends and seasonality and all that stuff you learned in forecasting for right now. But demand is something like this. So it's random. So we expect some kind of level. But we don't know exactly how much is going to be sold each period. Now, what I'm going to do is show you two types of inventory policies, a continuous policy and a periodic policy. The first one, a continuous policy that we're going to talk about, is the sQ policy, where that's a little s. And what we do here is we're trying to come up with a policy or a plan to try to minimize our total inventory cost or maximize our level of service. And we'll talk about that trade-off in a second. What it consists of is you find a value of little s. And that's the reorder point. And so what this is. I'll just put a dash line here. This is the point at which, if the inventory drops below a certain level, I place an order. Because we're a continuous order policy, I'm constantly watching my inventory. I'm looking at my stuff all the time. And so what will this look like? Well, instead of a straight triangle, it will look something like this, right? Because it's random demand. But it's going to go down. And then it's going to hit a certain level. It hits that reorder point. What do I do? I place an order for how much? Q. I order Q. Where does Q come from? It's an economic order quantity. So I order Q. My demand keeps going down. But at some point, it shows up, right? Remember this is what's on order. And the time between here, we talked, is the lead time, time between when I place the order and when it shows up. And then this just repeats itself. It's random. It hits down here again. I order up to Q, a Q amount. It shows up and so forth. And it keeps going down. So this is a continuous policy. I have a reorder point of little s. And when Inventory gets to that, I place an order for Q. So that's a continuous policy. And this makes a lot of sense. However, in many situations, you can't afford to just be watching your inventory. If I've got 10,000 SKUs, I can't be watching them and placing orders at random times. So that's where the periodic policy comes in. And so periodic review is a little bit different. And we're going to look at the policy called RS, were S is a big S, a capital S. And what R is telling me is I can only look at my inventory every R time periods. That can be once a week, every two weeks, every four weeks, twice a month. Whatever I want that to be, that is R. So every R period. That's the only time I can look at my inventory and place an order. Then I'm going to have this big S. And that's called the order up to point. And so we're going to have the same thing, looking at this demand. What's going to happen? Well, I'm going to have my inventory. It's going to go down. I'm selling stuff. I'm selling stuff. I hit this time period here, and I order up to this level S. And I'm going to just draw a line out. So I'm going to order up to that. Now sometimes I might order a certain amount. Other times I'll order a different amount. I always order up to the same amount. As opposed to this policy, I always or the same amount every time. So I place my order, all right. Things go down. It finally shows up, right? And my line goes up. Let me just draw this out. I place another order here, up to this. It shows up and so on. So I've still got my Lead time here, right? So when I place my order to when it shows up, that's still my Lead time. But now I've got this R period. So this is very commonly used. You might ask why. It seemed like this would be more efficient. And it is. But this makes a lot of sense in many situations. And you can think of the case where, for example, stocking a vending machine, like a soda machine or candy machine, you can't constantly be there. You're going to check it once a week. And so periodic review is very commonly used. Now the question that we're going to try to solve is, how do I set these parameters for my policy? And what we'll see is there are two main ways. One is to look at level of service. And I want to come up with a policy where I achieve a certain level of service. And the other is to minimize cost. Now we're going to look at two specific cases here. And so for level of service, I'm going look at something called Cycle Service Level and Item Fill Rate. So Cycle Service Level is, what is the probability that I had a stock out at all? Item fill Rate is looking at the probability of the number of items that I stock out of. Minimizing cost, I'm going to put a cost per stock out event or a cost per Item short. If I can put a dollar value on each time I'm short or each item that I'm short, then I can put that on my total cost equation and minimize that to find the optimal parameters to minimize my total cost. So this is what we're going to do this week. We're building on the EOQ and the Newsvendor problem. And we're going to tie it to a very common policy that's embedded in almost every ERP system out there. OK, so watch the videos, take the quick questions, do the practice problems, have fun.
