Week 3 · Welcome to Week 3

Welcome to week three of SC1x Supply Chain Fundamentals. This will be our third and final lecture or final week on forecasting. We're gonna wrap this up before we turn into, turn over to inventory and transportation. So what are we going to do this week? Well, we're going to finish up with exponential smoothing first. And what we're going to do here is introduce seasonality. So let's say you're looking like your demand is something like this. You're finding it all over the place. This is time. And so if you look at this, you start seeing a pattern. And you say, you know what, it looks like there's a level there, right? A level, a trend. But there's also some kind of maybe some seasonality. And so this is how we want to fit that last pattern in. We've already shown how to put level in, trend in, and how to deal with that randomness, that error term. Now we're going to say what happens with seasonality. And what we're going to do here is we're going to introduce a series of different terms. And what you're going to end up seeing is that it's going to be a function, your forecast for sitting in time period T for T plus tau, where tau is the number of periods in the future, is going to be a function of my estimate for the level, plus tau times my estimate, my current estimate, for the trend times my current estimate. Let me use another color there, of the seasonality. And this is the seasonality for this time period plus tau minus p. And we'll explain what that is, but essentially it's looking if I have seasonality by months of the year, I look at last year's same month. So if it's in November right now, I look at last year's November. If it's October, I look at last year's October. You look at the similar period. And so what we have here is three terms. And we have a level that you're going to estimate. And you're, I'm gonna show you how to update that. You're going to have a trend. And you see that it's multiplied by tau, because that's as far out as I go. Remember, because it's a linear trend. And the last thing you have is that seasonality. And we'll spend a lot of time developing this. And what you'll see by doing this a number of times is that it's really, the hard part is the bookkeeping. Keeping track of all the terms, initializing the terms, and making sure all the terms stay in sync. So that's the lesson that I want you to take away from that. Then in the second lesson we're gonna turn to special cases. And we're gonna go over three special cases that you'll see in practice. The first one is causal analysis. And we've done this before. This is called regression. We'll use ordinary least squares regression as our technique. So this is the case where maybe my demand is the number of ice cream cones that I stand. I have an ice cream stand and how many ice cream cones I sell. And I think that's a function of the temperature. And I think it's also a function of whether it's a weekend or not. And so recalling back to what we did in a previous class with ordinary least squares regression, I know that I can set up a linear equation here if I have data in the past for this. And I can create a linear expression where that's temperature plus beta 2 times x if it's weekend. And that will be a binary variable, a 1 0. And I can estimate these terms for beta 0 beta 1 and beta 2. And so then I would use this to forecast. I would use my regression model to estimate or forecast my demand. And we'll talk about when this makes sense, when it doesn't, how compares to exponential smoothing in the lecture. The next thing we'll talk about is new products. And this is a massive area. You're going to spend a lot of time here if you go, wherever you work in companies. Especially if you're in fast moving consumer goods or high tech. So the idea here is there's a lot of ideas that come into a company of new products and they get thrown into what most companies call some kind of funnel. And this funnel takes all those millions of good ideas and says OK, which ones actually are we going to act upon. And it's something that's called a stage-gate process. Stage-gate. Where all these new ideas have to pass certain hurdles as they make their way down the line to become an actual product. Now why am I talking about this in forecasting? Well, because new products are special because you have no history. You have no history to run a regression. You have no history to match a pattern to. So how do you forecast something you have no history for? That's what you need to know. The other interesting thing for new products as I move down this path, my forecasting technique will change. And the what you need to forecast will change. So new products, fascinating area. We'll spend a lot of time there. The last one is intermittent demand. Think spare parts. This is a special case, and this will happen to anyone who's in automotive, large manufacturing, where your demand is very intermittent. It's sparse. So down here I have a chart. This is time and this is demand. And what if my demand pattern looks something like this? In time, zero demand here. Then I have nothing for a number of periods. Then I've got some demand. Then I've got nothing. Then I've got demand. Then I've got nothing for a long time. Then I've got this other demand here. So I've got this very sporadic demand. It's very intermittent. Very hard to have that forecast fit into an inventory model like this. It's very spiky. So it causes problems, especially if I try to use exponential smoothing. So what I'm going to introduce is something called Croston's Method. And that allows you to smooth out this demand for the purpose of planning for inventory. So it's a method of smoothing out intermittent demand. OK, so this is wrapping up everything we're talking about for forecasting. We're going to finish it up in this lesson and talk about exponential smoothing, and then talk about some special cases. All right. So please watch the videos, work the recitations, work the quick questions and the practice problems, have fun.
