Week 1, Lesson 2 · Video 3: Segmentation

So now let's talk about Segmentation. Segmentation is the process by which a firm determines which products flow through which channels or which supply chains, because in reality, no firm operates a single supply chain. They have multiple supply chains based on the customer needs, the type of the products, and even the type of the supplier that provides the products for that item. So there's no such thing as a one-size-fits-all supply chain, and a corollary to this is there's no single best practice in how to, say, do forecasting or single best practice on how to do inventory management. It all depends on the conditions of the product that you're selling, the customer you're serving, and the suppliers who are serving you. All these different combinations make it so that you'll have different supply chains. And so firms will naturally segment their products, customers, and suppliers so that they can treat them in a better manner, whether it's more efficiently, more effectively, whatever. So segmentation only makes sense if you're going to do something different in the different products that you're segmenting or the different customers that you're segmenting. You have to do something different in terms of how you buy it, how you make it, how you move it, store it, how you forecast it, or how you sell it. So you can think of all the functions in the supply chain we talked about, and if I have different segments, then I'm going to want to be doing something different between the different products. So for example, in our sandwich shop example, my forecasting and demand planning for the ready-to-eat sandwiches will be very different from the forecasting I'll be using for my components for those one-of-a-kind, engineered sandwiches. You can also think of the inventory planning will be different in that case. But in larger, more real supply chains, you'll have all these different processes that you might do differently. So the question is, how do I treat these different products differently, and what do I do? Well, let's look at an example. This is from an internet-based retailer, and here are two simple examples. On the left, I have a baseball, and this is a sport that's played in the United States. It's a national pastime. It's mainly played in the summer. Then to the right, I've got a hockey puck, which is used in ice hockey, and this is a game that's typically played in the winter when the ponds and lakes freeze so you can actually skate on them, and it's used in hockey games. So if I look at these two products, they have very different demands, but they're also very similar in some aspects. They're similar in that they're both sports related, they're generally a low dollar item, a couple dollars each, and they have a very small profile. They're not big products. However, the big difference is when their demand differs because you can imagine that what I do in the summer will be different than what I do in the winter, and that might be how we want to segment. So let's look at the supply chain here, and this is, again, for a distribution out. So the question I want to focus on is, where do I store my baseballs and my hockey pucks? I have some options. I can keep them in my national distribution center or I can keep them in my series of fulfillment centers here because product goes from the distribution center to the fulfillment centers, and then from the fulfillment centers, that's where I satisfy each of the customers' demands. So this fulfillment center up here satisfies the customers in this area, this second one takes care of these, and so forth. So the question is, where do I put my baseballs and where do I put my hockey pucks? So in the summer, you'd probably do something like this. You'd keep your baseballs close to the customers. Why? Because as you have faster demand, you want to be able to replenish that quickly. So if people want a baseball and it's in the summer, then it's very fast response, so I'm pushing them forward. Now, the downside of that is that I'm going to have inventory stocked at three locations. So I'm going to have a higher level of inventory for baseballs in the summer, as opposed to these hockey pucks, which are going to be in less demand in the summer, and I'm going to keep them at the DC. Again, because I'm doing a trade-off now, I have a lower inventory level, but it takes a little longer for me to satisfy demand, but I don't have too much demand for hockey pucks in the summer. Now, in the winter, it all switches. And I move forward my hockey pucks because I'm going to have greater demand now in the winter for these, and I move my baseballs. I start stocking them here in the DC. So this is a simple example of how I can segment two seemingly similar products based on their seasonality over the course of a year. And the key underlying factor here is velocity. So in this case, how am I segmenting? Well, it's really product velocity. Items that move faster, I move them up here. I move them closer to the customer. Items that are slower, I move them back. This is a common approach and we'll see this more and more, but this is just one example of how I can segment. And here, I'm really segmenting on speed. And it just so happens the speed, or velocity, of the items changes. Very high volume here for the baseball in the summer, as opposed to the hockey puck, which has higher volume in the winter. So what are some rules of thumb when I segment? Well, it's not a science necessarily. There are rules of thumb. Let me just list out four that kind of make sense. The first is that in whatever segment I create of my products, there has to be something similar. So in the previous example, let's say I'm going to go by speed. All the things that go high volume in the summer-- I might put beach chairs, towels, and lawn mowers-- treat them all the same because they have a higher velocity in the summer as opposed to snow shovels, hockey pucks, hockey sticks, things that sell more in the winter. So I want to be able to treat them the same within the segment, and between the segments or across the segments, they want to be different. I want to do something different. So they have to be homogeneous within, heterogeneous between, or across. There has to be enough critical mass. I don't want to have a segment of one SKU. It has to be big enough to make it worthwhile to manage separately because that's what we're doing. We're finding a different way to manage each of these items. And it has to be pragmatic. I have to make it easy, useful, and something I can communicate to people actually doing the work. So there's a bunch of different ways I can segment my customers or suppliers, and you can think of a classic one is by order size or volume. So if I have some small nano store kind of customers and they order things at a case or a pallet at a time, I might treat them differently than customers that order a full truckload. So I will manage those very differently. And you can also think about lead time requirements. Maybe I have demanding customers that have a very short lead time and other customers that have a very long lead time. For example, if I'm selling tires, I'm a tire manufacturer, I might be servicing two types of customers, original equipment manufacturers, OEMs, that need a very fast lead time to get these tires to the plants so they can put them on automobiles and not shut the production line down. But I'm also servicing distribution centers for the aftermarket, and that's a much slower supply chain. You don't need to be as quick. So you will segment those customers very differently because their lead time requirements are very different. And so we'll talk more about that later in the course, but what we're going to focus on for the rest of this lesson is segmenting products. And there are three main dimensions that we can segment on-- the physical characteristics, the demand characteristics, and the supply characteristics. By physical characteristics, I mean things like the value, the cost it is to you, the size, the density, all those types of things. Demand characteristics, I'm going to focus in on the sales volume. That's the velocity, the speed, the volatility of those sales, maybe the duration of the selling time. And then I also want to think about the supply characteristics, things like the availability, the location, the reliability. So these are the type of things that I might want to think about when I segment. What we'll do next is look at what the distribution of these Stock Keeping Units, or SKUs, typically looks like.
