Week 3 · Recitation: Regression in Excel · Video 4

Welcome to the Linear Regression in SAS Special Cases, part 1-- recitation. In this, we're going to continue the what are you paying for example used in the past recitation. In this, you still believe that population density affects water prices. But now you also believe that climate can affect water prices. So you gather some data on population density, climate, and water prices. Once you have this, you'll want to perform a regression and see if you are absolutely correct. So over here, you can see the table that you're using of the information that you've collected. So we're going to move over to SAS, and we're going to run our regression on this now. Once we're in SAS, we're going to navigate to our Server, Files, and Folders tab. We're going to open up the tab-separated inputs again, and we're going to input some data. So we'll call this one Regression 2. So our data is going to be called Regression 2. Make sure there's no spaces in any of your names. If there is, it'll output two data sets. That's not what you want. You want one data set, so no spaces. So our input here is actually going to be the input style of our table. So we'll navigate back there and see what our input style is. It's going to be population, then climate, then water price. So we'll say Input, and we're going to say Pop Den, and then Population Density. Then we'll say Climate and then Water P. So we have our inputs here. And then below, we're going to input them as tab-separated points. So we're going to get rid of our example data, and we're going to paste in our actual data for this analysis. So in this, we have to remember that warm is a name. So behind climate, we have to add a little dollar sign. So we're going to put a little space and then a dollar sign. And that lets SAS know that climate is a text instead of a number. So we can run this, and it'll input our data. We're going to check to make sure that it's all correct looking. So we have our population density, which all looks correct, our climate, which all looks correct, and our water price, which all looks correct. Now that our data is set up, we're going to move over to our Tasks and Utilities tab. We're going to open up our Linear Regression tool, and we're going to let SAS write some linear regression code for us. We're going to choose our files. We're going go to our little Work file. We're going to go down to Regression 2. That's the data we're interested in analyzing. We're going to select our dependent variable. Our dependent variable is our water price since we're interested in predicting our water price. Now, our classification variable is going to be our climate. Now, since our climate can either be hot or cool, or warm or cool, we have two possible outcomes there, so two possible classes. Now, if we have five classes, that can become a bit of a problem when you're doing it mathematically on a spreadsheet or something, because you have to create binary variables for each one of those. SAS automatically creates binary variables for these, and it then analyzes it altogether. So you'll have five binary variables if you have five classes. In our case, we have two classes, so we only have two binary variables that SAS creates for us. So we're going to add our climate classification variable, and then we're going to add our continuous variable, which is population density. And we're going to jump over to our Model tab. Now, in this, we need to make sure we're including population density and climate in our model. If we don't add them, then our model will inherently be not what we want it to be. So we need to make sure that we have those added. Once we have that, we can look at our options. Our options all look good. So we're going to run our model, and we can look at our output. So what we're trying to do is we're trying to use our climate as a classification variable and our population density as a continuous variable to predict our water price. So we're going to run our regression. We're going to see what our output says. So in this, your primary focus is going to be down here on your ANOVA. Once again, that's your f value, and that's going to show you your general goodness of fit of your model. It turns out our model is a pretty good fit. So we'll move down, and we can look at our parameter estimates. So you can see here that our intercept is 0.98. So on average, just water costs about $1. Now, based on your population density, as your population density goes up by 1, your water price goes up by 1/10 of a cent. So that's interesting, and that's what we wanted to do with our last analysis. Now we're curious to see if climate has an effect on it. It turns out as climate is cooler, it makes our estimate go down. So if we look at our cool climate, if the climate is cool, we actually have 20 cents less cost on average per water bottle. Now, when our climate is warm, it's going to be $0.20 more, but that's already included in our intercept up here. So we can see that the difference between cool and warm is actually going to be about $0.21. Now, if we look over at the p value, we can see that the p value is actually not very high. So we can't say with a very high degree of certainty that cool climates make water price go down, but we can say with a reasonable degree that water prices are likely to go down in cooler climates. We can't say that with any significant degree of confidence, though. Once again, down below, you have more diagnostic maps or diagnostic panels that you can look at as you become more proficient in modeling in SAS. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion. Thanks for listening.
