Week 9, Lesson 2 · Video 2

So we'll talk about transportation's impact on inventory to the same example we talked about in the last video, the Shipping Shoes from Shenzhen example. This is part 2, so the information hasn't changed. We're still moving product from Shenzhen, China to Kansas City. The domain is still 4.5 million shoes. Standard deviation of that is about 540,000 over the course the year. 3,000 shoes-- pairs of shoes-- fit into a TEU. Average cost, $35. Multiplying those gives me the cost of the product in a container, about $105,000. You'll always fill the container. And then I have an average sales price $75 per pair. Don't really use that in this problem. I have an order shipment cost. That's $5,000 per order, regardless of how many containers. I have holding cost, h, of 15%. I'm assuming 50 weeks in the year. 350 days in the year. And the Cycle Service Level of 95%. And then we have all the different transportation options we went through in detail in the last lesson. And what I'm showing here is a summary, the cost per container and the length of time. Now what we want to find out is which option provides the lowest total logistics cost. Last time we went in and looked at transportation cost, and we found out is that the lowest transportation cost is this. The third option, which goes from Hong Kong to New York, through the Panama Canal, railroad to Kansas City. So it kind of goes something like this. Through the Panama Canal. Whoops. Not through Cuba. Up in New York and then in. That's what we found has the lowest transportation costs, just because you look at cost per container. That's the all in, end to end transportation cost. Now we want to figure out- what about the lowest total logistics cost? So we're going to include inventory. So our old friend, the total cost equation. And what I have here is just the data. Now each of the four options we have, paths 1 through 4, we have the Lead Time in days, we have the cost for transportation. That's just the end to end cost per container, summing up all the different legs that we did last time. Then I add that to the value of the product in the container, which is a $105,000 per container. So it's simply, C_trans plus $105,000, which is the cost of the shoes-- the value of the shoes. C_t was given, $5,000. Doesn't change for any of the options. C_e is simply the cost times that h of 15%. Demand hasn't changed. Now this is in containers per year. I just divided that 4.5 million by 3,000 shoes in a container. Gives me the number of containers per year. I'll be doing the same thing for the standard deviation. My order quantity, we figured out last time was 30 containers per order. So, it looks like it's going to be about one week. I'm going to be doing-- placing an order. 30 times 50 is 1,500. And then the last one is the standard deviation of demand over Lead Time, or really forecast error. And if I have 540,000 shoes per year as my standard deviation, divide that by 3,000 shoes per container, then I get 180 containers per year is the standard deviation, over the year. And so I'm going to divide that by whatever the Lead Time, divided by the number of days in the year. And I get that, and that differs for each of these because they have different lengths. So this is my input. What am I going to do with it? I'm just going to plug and chuck. So my purchase cost, c times d. That's this column. My ordering cost. I'm going to go straight through, and it's simply going to be C_t times D over Q for each. And you see, since they all have the same Q, the same D, they have the same C_t*D, it doesn't change. There's no difference here. Then we get into the inventory. Cycle Stock? Everyone has the same Q, so Q over 2 times C_e. It's not really going to change. Its minor, minor changes because we see the C_e isn't that different because it costs-- the transportation of the container is dwarfed by the product value. Then we get into Safety Stock. And this where things differ a lot because remember, this is a function of C_e, the cost of the value of the product multiplied by the h, times that K. We use the Cycle Service Level of what? 95% times standard deviation of the Demand Over Lead Time. So that will differ. So this will be different for each one of the options. And you can see they vary dramatically from $1.65 million, for that third option, which is the slowest, to $1.48 million for the fastest. And the same thing mirrors itself in the Pipeline Inventory, which is simply just the Lead Time times the Demand. And you can again, see that option 2 is a very low value, compared to the other options, because it's a lot faster. So I add up for the total cost here, and you can see it's about $500,000 less. So we come out to $1.67 per shoe. Logistics cost per shoe. I divide that by 4.5 million. And so what I get is the lowest total cost, logistics cost path is path number 2. Remember, that's the one that goes from Hong Kong into LA, and then goes from rail into Kansas City. So it comes through the West Coast. So where's the real difference? Well, I'm paying a little more in transportation than the previous one. But I'm paying a whole lot less in inventory cost. Specifically, Safety Stock, because my Lead Time is tighter. And Pipeline Inventory, because my Lead Time again, is much tighter. So as will always-- not always-- but often be the case, the lowest transportation cost provider is not necessarily the lowest total cost. Once I include inventory into the decision, things differ. Because time now matters. And we'll see this more as we go forward, because we're also going to start saying, OK, I gave you the lead time, but how variable are they? And so now we'll start talking about where does reliability or variability of transit time fit into this equation. And we'll do that in the next lecture.
