Week 9, Lesson 1 · Video 3

So let's talk about freight transportation through an example. And our example is shipping shoes from Shenzhen, China to the United States. So let's suppose we have a company, called ShoeCo, and it manufactures and sells athletic shoes. And they're manufactured, labeled, and packed in a plant in Shenzhen, China, down here. And they're shipped in full containers, TEUs, and they're shipped, about 4.5 million shoes a year, pairs of shoes. 3,000 pairs of shoes are shipped in each 20-footer TEU container, and the value of the shoes about $35 each. Now they go to a distribution center in North America, which is located right in the center of the United States in Kansas City. And so our job is to figure what the best way to ship my shoes from Shenzhen to Kansas City. Now the challenge here is-- there's a couple of challenges. What is best? Is best the most cost effective? Is it the fastest? Is the most reliable? So that whole level of service question is something that we'll have to grapple with. But what we want to figure out now is, what is the lowest cost? That's what we're going to focus on. When you look at transportation moves like this, you can break them down into segments. So we talk about things at the origin door. Shenzhen is the origin, that's where the trip starts. And "at the door" is at the door of the factory. Think of it leaving the factory. Then we have what's known as inland origin, where it gets to a port at the origin, so somehow it's going to get to some port somewhere. And then it's going to go from port to port. And this is known as the water route, or the port to port time frame. So it goes from some port here to some port, you know, somewhere in the United States, and we'll talk about that in a second. Once it's in at the destination port, then it has what's known as the inland transportation move, where it goes into the final destination, which is known as a destination door. Now why do we say these things? Because a lot of times, the different rates for the different times are based on different parts of this end to end movement. A lot of times people will talk about a port to port rate, which means they'll move it on the water. It's that rate. Versus someone says, this rate is door to door, or door to port. And so these different combinations imply which part of the entire trip they're talking about. So. Let's go a little deeper, and let's focus in on each of these different phases of the move. So inland transportation at the origin. Again, I've got my plant here at Shenzhen, and I'm going to load my full containers. And I've got options. One option is I go to the port of Yantian, which is about a little over 30 kilometers away. I can move by truck. And that's one port, it has a deep water port, has a number of berths, about 100 weekly services, so that's one option. Another option is to go to the port of Hong Kong, a slightly bigger port. Again, about the same distance. It has nine container terminals, a little bigger, more services come through. Or, if I decide I really want to get it to the United States fast, I could go to an airport. And the Shenzhen-- I'm going to mispronounce this-- Bao'an Airport is just about the same distance away, and I can move that by truck. But let's, for this, purpose of this exercise, let's focus in on the ocean side. So I'm going to either go to Yantian or Hong Kong. So what does this container terminal look like? So I'm moving it by truck into each of these ports, or one of these ports. And the thing about container terminals at a port is that they're all different, but they're all the same. And they're the same in that they have the same structure. And so this chart up here shows where a ship would come in, right? And then you'd have some kind of cranes, gantry cranes usually, that would unload the containers in this apron area. Right, this is kind of the working area. And it throws them, or moves them, into what's known as the container yard. Right? And this should look very similar. It looks like a distribution center, the same one we saw earlier in this lecture. Instead of putting them on pallets, we're going to stack each of the individual containers. And then you've got entrance ways or gates where the trucks that are coming in would go in and pick things up and then move them out. But basically, the core things of a terminal are where the ship gets loaded and unloaded, the cranes themselves, and then the container yard. So this is what the chart looks like, but let's show some examples. So here is container terminal number nine at Hong Kong, and it's on Tsing Yi Island. So we can see some of these things. Here are the gantry cranes, right? They're unloading a ship. I can't tell if they're loading or unloading. But you can see this whole area is the container yard, or part of the container yard. You can see the containers are stacked. I count up to four or five high. So they're stacked here, and you can see other pieces of equipment that are moving them around. Now at a smaller scale, here's Capetown South Africa. And this is a terminal. You see the same format. I see my ship. I see cranes that unload and load. They get moved into the container yard. And so here it's, nothing is stacked because they don't need the space as much here. You see down here in Hong Kong they're stacking three, four, five high. So container terminals are kind of all the same. They're all a little bit different, but they follow the same structure, and they should look very similar to you, like a DC or a warehouse, where things are organized, structured for easy put-away and easy pickup. Now moving the containers themselves, the loading and unloading, this is the beauty of containers. Because whether I'm unloading it from a ship or moving them onto a ship, I'm going to pick them up in a variety of different ways. These are two pictures of gantry cranes. And again, it's only picking it up at the corners. So it's standardized. Go across the world, the container, containers are all the same. They all have the same hookups, so they're standardized, which makes it so much easier and very efficient in the ports. Now once I get it off the ship, I have to move it within the yard, and I have slightly different pieces of equipment. I might have a stretch, a trailer here, that pushes it off and will stack them. Or I can have other pieces of equipment here. This one goes in between and can move them up or down and can stack on top. You see, there's a container in there in between the wheels. So there's all these different types of equipment. You can certainly go on the web and see many different types of ports and different equipment that they use. So. We've done the inland transportation, the container's now at a port. It gets loaded onto a ship. And so container ships take many different forms as well. They can be as small as something like this. This is a barge. You see a little tow boat pulling a barge with, what is it, one, two, three, four, five, six containers going up the Thames River. Right? You can see Big Ben. So something this small to something of this scale. This is the Emma Maersk. It's one of the larger ships out there. It carries 15,200 TEUs. So 15,000 versus six. So that's a wide range of container ships. Oceangoing ships will be of this size, slightly smaller. You might see 2,000 to 3,000. There's a class called Panamax, which is the largest that can get through the Panama Canal before the expansion, and they handle in the 4,000 to 5,000 TEU range. So there's a wide range of different size and configuration of container ships. Across the world, there's probably about 13 million TEU equivalents out there. And this shows a chart of the different carriers that are out there. The biggest one is Maersk with about 2.1 million TEU equivalents. The next would be, what is it, Mediterranean shipping with 1.7 million. So you can see all the other ones, and there are many other ones out there. These are the big ones. So we have all these ocean carriers, and they offer different services. So, for me for us sitting here at Shenzhen, I've got over 40 different shipping lines that visit these ports. And this is as of a couple of years ago. These things change periodically. But let me just give you two examples. One is an offering by APL, American President Line. And what these offerings are, are known as strings. A string is simply a series of pickups and dropoffs. That's all that it's doing. And so the ship in this case-- and the service is called the APX, Atlantic Pacific Express service-- it starts in Hong Kong, picks up there on a Saturday. Then it goes to Taiwan, picks up there. South Korea. Two stops in Japan, and then it goes across the Pacific through the Panama Canal. Then it goes up the east coast of the United States to Miami. Then to Savannah, Charleston, and finally New York City. So you can see the total time from Hong Kong to New York is 30 days. Hong Kong to Miami is just 25 days. And you can go back. So this is one offering, or one string that a shipper can pick. And so they can choose between that, or-- let me just erase these-- they could pick another one. Here's another offering. This is CSCL offers, and it's known as the American Asia Southloop. So it picks up in Yantian on a Saturday. Goes to Hong Kong. Goes to South Korea, picks something up there. And then goes all the way to port of Los Angeles. And sometimes you'll see port of Los Angeles, POLA. And sometimes you have port of Los Angeles, port of Long Beach. Right? So P-O-L-A-L-B. Anyway. So it's coming in, that's another option you have. And you can see it's a lot faster, 16 days compared to 30 going to New York City. And the main difference is you're not going through the Panama Canal and up the east coast. So these are two options. There's many that are there. And two things. They're specified to pick up at a certain time, because typically-- not always, but typically-- these repeat every week. And so if I miss this one, I have to wait a week. So this is the same thing as if you miss a flight. If you miss the boat, you've got to wait for the next service. And so these are schedules runs. They're not going to wait for your container. All right? So they will leave on a weekly basis. There's other ones that have maybe two week, or every two days. There are actually some services that are offered where they have daily shipments, but those are rare. Usually it's a weekly kind of basis. The other thing we're trying to figure out here for North America, I've got the two options. The first option comes in on the east coast, right? And the second option comes in on the west coast. And so the question is, do I want to do what-- this one that went this way is known as the all-water route, and then into the east coast. Or do I want to do what's known as a land bridge, where I come in on the water, but then I'm going to have to rail it or truck it a longer distance. So sometimes you-- this is sometimes called a mini land bridge, where I could go from here to the port of Long Beach, take a train all the way across, and then go on to Europe. That's kind of silly, because you can go the other way. It might be easier. But this is known as, what's referred to as a land bridge, where I might have two water routes with land movement in between. But what we're focused on in this example is whether I come in through this port or some port here on the east coast. And so what happens then? Well, now I've got that last leg of the move, the inland transportation at destination. So no matter where I come in, I've got to finish up at Kansas City. So I could come in at port of Los Angeles. I could come in Miami, Savannah, Charleston, or New York City. And so in either case, in any case, I've got to figure a way to get in to Kansas City from one of those ports. So let's say I've decided to go to the port of New York New Jersey. So I'm up here, and I've got to get my freight to Kansas City. And I've got many options. One of the options is to use a truck. This is an over the road truck. It consists of two units, a power unit, this cab or tractor, and then a trailer. In this case, it's a 53 foot trailer. It's detachable, so I can park this trailer sometime and use the tractor for something else. So how would I go? I'd follow the highways all the way through, and I'd give you the highways in case you want to follow it on a map, and it would take two and 1/2 to three days. Now another option is to go by rail. And so I could get to the rail. And one option is in Norfolk Southern. They have something called the Express Rail II. Just like how ocean carriers have strings, the railroads have services. And they leave at certain times of a week, of the day. And so they're scheduled. And this one leaves the port of the New York New Jersey, goes through Harrisburg, on to Pittsburgh, to Cleveland, to Fort Wayne, through Peoria, and eventually ends up just outside Kansas City. And so that's one offering, and it's a double stack. What does double stack mean? Well here, let me circle it. It means I can stack my containers. That makes it much more efficient. I'm hauling two containers instead of just one. So it's an efficiency move where you can double stack. Most long haul movements on rail are double stack containers. But I have another option, all right? I could also take the CSX. They have an offering as well, that they double stack down the east coast through Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, up through Pittsburgh-- everything goes through Pittsburgh-- and then Indianapolis, and then on to Kansas City. Now for each of these offerings for the railroad, they're a little bit different. They're scheduled, and they're going through different yards, so they'll be unloaded and reloaded and those kind of things, where they will move all containers headed out to different areas onto different trains. The truck is going to be direct, and that's why a lot of the differences will be in transit time. Truckload will almost always be faster. Than you get rail, and it's going to take a little bit longer, five to 12 days. And now what we're showing is a special type of rail. It's known as intermodal, or IM. Let me just circle it down here. And what this means is that I'm doing an intermodal, I need some way to load it onto the train, and at the end destination, I'm going to have to unload and maybe move by truck the last mile, last five miles, 10 miles, whenever I unload. Because chances are the railroad doesn't go directly to my warehouse. Right? It's a schedule move. It's going to go to a station, or to a terminal, or to a landing. And so what's going to happen is, you're going to need a truck to take it that last mile, and that's called drayage. So sometimes when you talk about the dray, D-R-A-Y, what that means is the truck taking it from the intermodal ramp, or last terminal, to the final distribution center door. So whenever you have a scheduled rail run, chances are you're going to have a truck at either end loading it on, getting it to this rail station or the landing or the ramp, and then taking it from the ramp to the final destination. So at the end of the day, we've looked at inland transportation, water to water, and then inland at the destination. So the question is, how do I determine which movement to use? And so to do this, to determine which mode I should do to ship my shoes from Shenzhen to Kansas City, I've got to talk about some different networks, the physical, the operational, and the service and strategic network. So let's do that next.
