Week 10, Lesson 2 · Video 4

PROFESSOR: Hello I'm Dr. Inma Borrella, and I'm going to do the wrap up for the next two sections of the case study. So in this section, we encountered a product availability issue. What is exactly the situation? Well, Clean'n Green is stocking out of products A and B, which are flagship products for the company. The diagnosis is that there is an issue with bottle availability. These two products are liquid soaps, and they need a bottle to be put into the market. So the characters we introduced in this section are good old Ralph Goodman, the VP of supply chain. We also introduced Claire Brown, the VP of Manufacturing, Ray Miller, the VP of Procurement, and Mary Wilson, the VP of Sales and Marketing. They all met to have a discussion around this issue with product availability. We'll take a quick look at the demand for product A and product B. We can observe that actually, demand for product A is pretty volatile. The coefficient of variation is quite high, with a root mean square error that accounts for almost half the amount of the average annual demand for this product. Also, the lead times of two weeks and three weeks are relatively high, I would say. They're relatively long. There's margin for improvement there. So in the meeting, Marketing just pointed out that the money is strong and the brands are well recognized. Manufacturing said that the product is available. Liquid soap is available. But packaging is the problem. The bottles themselves, they're missing them. Procurement, I just explained that they put big order quantities in place. And the lead times, as I mentioned, are relatively long, but they have been like that for a while. And supply team mentions that they are not willing to store air, meaning empty bottles, and that there is little space in the warehouse. So they are not really willing to deal with bigger order quantities or storing more empty bottles. When we look at the current inventory policy, we can figure it out pretty quickly that it's an (s, Q) policy, a continuous review policy. With information that is provided in the case study, we can calculate that the orders are put in place every four to five months, and that the cycle service level is very low, only 54% for both products. So this is where the problem is, clearly. That's why we're having so many stockouts for products A and B. The safety stock is too small to account for demand variability. We would try to propose a new policy. I've chosen to go for an (R,S) policy, just because I like the idea of being able to establish a period, a review period, that is fixed, and it's the minimal review period that I can establish. Because, as it was indicated in the case study, the suppliers are willing to receive no more than one order per month. So OK, let's do that. Then let's send one order per month, because I know that my demand has a lot of variability, and I want to be as flexible as possible in placing orders to my suppliers. So if I target a cycle service level of 90%, the inventory cost with this (R,S) policy, is 691, which is a nice surprise. Because I'm spending less money. The inventory cost is smaller than with the current policy, and the cycle service level has improved by 36%, which is a lot. So what happened with this new proposed policy? Why did it improve, so much, the result, while reducing the cost? Well, what we did was increase the safety stock quite a lot, because we need to account for the variability of demand over the review and the lead time period. But the cycle of stock was significantly decreased. Because since we put orders more often, we don't need to order as much. And the pipeline inventory didn't change, because we haven't changed the lead time. We haven't negotiated that or touched that variable. And the average demand hasn't changed either. So pipeline inventory stays the same. But the other two parts of the inventory cost equation have actually evolved. So could we improve this policy even farther? Well, actually, yes. We can always improve farther. We can always improve efficiency and reduce cost. There's always something to do, something to try. So if we look at the inventory cost equation, we see that we have these three clear elements of the equation. We have the cycle stock right here. We have the safety stock right here. And we have the pipeline inventory right here. So what kind of actions could we consider to take? Well, if we work to decrease the lead time-- we negotiate with our suppliers to shorten the lead time-- then we will be able to reduce the safety stock. And we will also be able to reduce the pipeline inventory. If we try to decrease the review period-- and for doing this, we must agree with the procurement department and also the suppliers-- but if we can review more often, shorter periods of time for the review, then we can also decrease the safety stock and the cycle stock. Of course, we have to take into account the transaction costs here, and just think how big they are and how that will impact my total cost? Finally-- and it is something that we can always try to do-- is improve the forecast. If we are able to improve the forecast to reduce the root mean square error associated with the forecast of the demand for product A, then we will reduce the variability. And we will be able to decrease the safety stock. How could we do this? Well, maybe the variability is there, it's inherent to the demand of this product. But maybe not. Maybe it's just that we are not being able to capture some pattern that is there, and we have not seen, for example, seasonality or a trend. So a little bit farther into the discussion-- actually, during the second meeting-- an interesting new policy was proposed. And it was the one bottle for all-- or the single bottle policy. Why was Ralph, the VP of Supply Chain, so excited about this idea? Well, it's great from a supply chain perspective, because of risk pooling. Risk pooling-- what this is doing is really using the same component for two or more products. What we are achieving with this is really reducing the variability of the demand for that specific component, in this case, for the bottles. How does this happen? Because we are pooling the demand for different products together. So when one goes up, the other one maybe go down. So they actually just are pooled together, and the variability is reduced. So, what will be the impact of risk pooling in my inventory cost? Well, because variability is reduced, safety stock is also reduced. And we would also need to consider the complexity is reduced. Because we'll have less suppliers to deal with, and less parts to store and to deal with, too, in our warehouse. If we look at the data for our specific case, the coefficient of variation for product A is 46%. Coefficient of variation for product B is 17%. And when we combine both together, the coefficient of variation of the demand is 27%. And this has great advantages for managing the inventory of bottles. And also, this single bottle initiative, actually, brought to the table two new possibilities. One was a supplier discount. If a certain monthly minimum was achieved, of 300 units. And the other one was the possibility to reuse bottles-- recover bottles that have been sold and just recondition them and reuse them-- put them back into the manufacturing pipeline. The only caveat to this is that only 60% of the products sold every month could be recovered. That's the estimation. That would be about 210 units per month. So if we want to look into these two options a little more in detail, we can look at them in terms of costs. So what would make more sense from a cost perspective? Well, I solved this problem graphically, because I think it's a very intuitive way of seeing the differences between policies-- or, one possibility and the other. In this graph, the vertical red line is the average monthly order of 350 bottles that will be required-- the 350 bottles that are needed to manufacture the products A and B every month. And in blue, we can see the cost for the virgin bottles: before the discount, if we order less less than 300 units; and after this count, we order more than 300 units. If we look at the other option-- the option of using reused bottles-- we see that there is a fixed cost of $250 just for retooling the machines, and preparing the production line to recondition bottles-- clean them up and make them ready for going back into the manufacturing process. And then, every unit will have a cost of just $1 per bottle. And this represented with this green line. But as I mentioned, there is some limitations to this approach, and is that only-- we can only have up to 210 reused bottles per month. So I can only have up to here. After that, I will have to just buy virgin bottles, just to reach the 350 units per month that I need to have to manufacture my products. So this dotted black line represents the no discount price virgin bottles, that I will have to acquire after I've reached this point. So if we compare both options, we can see how the option of buying whole virgin bottles, and therefore, getting the discount that the supplier is offering, would be the most interesting offer from a cost perspective. It-- we will be saving almost $200 if we use this option, versus using the option of implementing all the recovery and reuse of the bottles, and then buying some virgin bottles, but at the original price, without the discount. Of course, something to mention before moving forward is that the cost is not the only variable to take into account when making a decision like this. For this company, Clean'n Green, this policy of using-- reusing bottles-- reconditioning bottles-- is very much aligned with their mission of achieving environmental sustainability, and can also have a great impact when marketing their products. Because their customers are a niche market of people who worry about environmental issues. So the value creation part of going through that path of using reused bottles might create more value, actually, that might just compensate for the extra cost that this option entails over the buying only virgin bottles option. So some takeaways. Procurement, in this case, was very focused on reducing transaction costs and getting good per unit prices. But they were not considering inventory cost. That's why they weren't put too much emphasis in reducing lead times and reducing review periods. Marketing was very focused on creating new attractive offerings. And supply chain played the role of orchestrator, constituting the trade offs between cost and service level. I think this is a very relevant role to play by supply team managers, in reality. Some food for thought, to wrap up. What is the right balance between value creation and cost efficiency? Just think about that. This is related to these options that we considered-- reused bottles, or just cheaper buying virgin bottles. Well, we need to consider also value creation, not only cost savings, with every decision we make. And another question is, how could all departments coordinate better to improve performance? And we'll continue talking about this in the next section. So I hope you enjoyed this new part of the case study. And I am looking forward to see what comes next.
