Week 2, Lesson 2 · Video 2: Time Series Components

So let's talk about the different components we'll be looking for in time series analysis. The first component we're going to look for is the level. This is the value where a demand hovers, the mean. So over here on the right we have this picture of all the different observations. What we can see here is that they're all kind of hovering around a certain level. And this captures the scale of the time series analysis because this kind of sets the level on the demand side. And if there's no other pattern, no other components present, then we can say the forecast is going to be this constant value. So we're going to call this Level (a) and you can see it's just the mean or the average where all those different observations hover. So this is the easiest pattern-- level. The second one is a trend, and this is defined as the rate of growth or decline. It's got to be persistent movement in one direction or the other. We show this as a positive trend. You can also have a negative trend. It could happen. It's typically linear like what we have right here. So this is a linear trend, and we're going to say the slope is b. But you could have an exponential trend that would look something like this. Very dangerous, because then you have to make sure it goes-- grows exponentially. So you have to monitor it very closely. If you start modeling an exponential trend, it will blow up. So you have to be very careful in monitoring that. More common is you'll see something like this, where you have a level, and you expect it to tail out. It'll dampen. And we'll talk more about that, because the thing about trends-- trends don't go on forever. And so we eventually assume that they will change slope and maybe temper down a little bit. So you have to monitor that. But that's the second component we're looking at is trend. So we've got level, trend, and then we've got seasonality. We're going to call that F, and we'll talk about what that means, this F factor. But essentially, seasonality is a repeated cycle. And the important thing is it's around a known or fixed period of time-- hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, annually. It doesn't matter as long as it's fixed and known. And it can be caused by either natural forces or man-made. You can think of summer and winter. In the winter you're not going to have as much demand for certain products. Man-made things like back to school, that happens at a certain time of year. It always happens in the fall-- in North America, anyway. And so what that means is there's going to be this seasonality, and it's nothing to do with natural causes-- it's all man-made. But again, remember when we talk about time series, this is a black box method. I'm just looking at the seasonality to try to see the patterns in the existing data. Then the last one-- or not the last one, the fourth one, is random fluctuations. And we're going to call this e, or epsilon. And this is the remainder of the variability after all the other components have been used. So it's kind of what's left over. And you see irregular, unpredictable variations. Everything you see here, all the little noise. Right? All the little noise. And it's something that we will always have there, because a prediction will never be totally accurate. So you're always going to have this noise. Now there is a fifth component that we want to talk about briefly. We're not going to do too much with it the remainder of this course, but I want to make sure you understand what it is. And that's cyclical movements. So a cyclical movement is not like seasonality. Yes, it's a periodic movement, but it's not with a fixed period. So the length of it differs. A lot of times this is used for business cycles or any kind of economic or macroeconomic conditions. So let me give you an example here. This is a great statistic. This is the PMI, the Purchasing Manager Index from the Institute of Supply Management. And that's an index they run from 0 to 100, and the key number is 50. And so if their index is below 50, then that means they think the economy is contracting. And if it's above 50, they think it's expanding. And they do this through a bunch of surveys and things. They've been doing it for many years. And here's a recent snapshot from 2006, October 2006, to October 2010, which captured a recession. Pretty much a global recession. So you see here what happened is they were kind of in the middle, kind of hanging out in the middle, and then we had a very big contraction. And then we started expanding out over the last couple years. So this is a business cycle. And in this case, the business cycle lasted about-- what is that? About a year and a half? 18 months? So you can think about that, but other business cycles will last many different lengths of time. So here we are-- the same index, but going back to 1949. And you can see that these different troughs and cycles have many different lengths of time. So this is why it's a cyclical movement-- it's not periodic. If we knew exactly how long each downturn in the economy would be, it would be a very different world. Let me point out one other thing. If I'm sitting here-- let's say we're in the summer of 2009, or the spring of 2009, right in here-- and I'm forecasting for the next three to six months, if I just take this snapshot, and this is my world, what does my world look like? It looks like I'm in a major trend. So depending on the level of your view as you come in, and if you do a very short term forecast, you might be seeing a tremendous uptick, a steep trend in the economy. And so one thing about these different patterns, it really matters what your level of view is, what your horizon is. Because similarly if I was sitting over here, and I'm in the fall of 2008, I'm in a negative trend. So the point I'm trying to make here-- where you sit and what your time frame is dictates a lot of what pattern you're looking at. OK. So we have these five patterns. We have a level, we have a trend, we have seasonality, we have the cyclical movements, and then we have this error term. What do I do with those? Well, I can combine them. And there's different ways I can combine these components. One way is multiplicative. If I think the trend changes with-- Let's say I have every season-- winter, spring, summer, and fall has a different trend level, and it increases by say 10% or decreases by 10%. If I think it's a multiplicative trend, then I multiply it. And then I can multiply the error and all those kind of terms. So this is where I think that the changes in the seasonality are relative. Now another way to look at this-- let's clean this up-- is to think of them as additive. If I think, for example, in the summer my increase in demand is an absolute amount-- say 100 units or 1,000 units-- then that's additive. If I think it's just a straight bump, if I think it's a percentage of the trend, then I'm here to multiplicative. So you have to think about how you want to use these trends. Is it an additive function? Is it a multiplicative function? But as you some of you might have already realized, if I think it's all multiplicative, I can change that into an additive function just by taking a log transformation. Take a natural log-- actually a log of any base-- to this function, and it turns into an additive function. And so you can turn a pure multiplicative function into an additive function. It gets a little more confusing, but you can do it. But what happens more often, more commonly, is this idea of mixed. And so here are three examples of mixed models. And there are many other ones you can do. In the first one, it's saying that the demand x of t-- so this is the actual demand in period t-- is going to be equal to the seasonality factor-- we say it's multiplicative-- of the level and the trend. Now this is b times t. Right? So this b is the slope, t is the number of time units that I've done. So you can see down here at the bottom the notation. So this is saying that if the seasonality in the winter for sales goes up by 10%, it's affecting both the level and the trend. Then I added the cyclical and the error term as well. Another one, the second one, where the actual demand in period t we're going to say is equal to the level, but the level doesn't change over the seasons, we're saying. We're saying only the trend changes. So we're saying that during the winter, say, sales go up 3% instead of 6%. And then in the summer it changes some other way. So only the trend is being affected here. And then the final one that I have down here. It's just the opposite. It's saying the level is affected by the season. So we could say something like, in the summer, usually we sell 1,000 units a month across the year, but in the summer I sell about 20% more. But the trend over time isn't changing. It's just the level in the summer is different. So you can see you can have a combination of multiplicative and additive functions. So what are we going to focus on? We're going to focus on four models. The first is just a straight level model. And this is saying that the demand in period t is equal to this level, this constant amount, plus some error term, some noise bouncing around. Next we'll go for a trend, where we're saying there's this level, but then there's a general trend either increasing or decreasing. And if it's decreasing this b would be negative, of course. And then the third model is where we're going to mix level and seasonality. So I'm saying there is a level, and there is some kind of seasonality. And then the last one is kind of combining them all together, where I have a mixed level, trend, and seasonality. Where the level and the trend are additive, but it's multiplicative in the seasonality, and seasonality affects both of them. So these are the models that we're going to focus on. All right. So let's get started.
