Week 9, Lesson 2 · Video 7

OK, key points from this lesson. First, everything ties back to the total cost equation, right? Everything we do really ties into this because this is the equation that ties together our forecasting, impact with our inventory, with our transportation. And we learned that the selection process, which are selected between modes, between routes, or even between carriers of the same mode, two different truck companies or two different airlines, it doesn't matter. It's a trade-off, and I'm trading off transportation costs, both fixed and variable, as well as inventory cost. And they will be affected differently whether it's my holding cost, my Safety Stock, or my pipeline. And all these are being traded off of my level of service, which can be affected-- level of service means many different things. It could be a function of my Lead Time, or it could be my k factor for how much I don't want to stockout my service factor that I want to put in there. So it's always a trade-off. The big takeaway is you always need to consider more than just the direct transportation cost. The only exception to this is when all the choices happen over the same time. So if my choices are to get somewhere and it doesn't affect the inventory costs or anything else, then I can just do transport. But if I'm looking at any large move, it's going to have inventory implications. And lead Time certainly impacts the safety stock levels, and variability impacts it even more so. We looked at the Hadley Whitin equations, which is a little confusing at first, I know, but once you get used to doing it, it's a very, very valuable tool to see what the impact of variability is on my Total inventory cost, my total systems cost. And finally, just a word of warning when you use these equations. We assume that they're all normal at the end, and that, to be honest, is a pretty safe assumption when you look at this whole convoluted-- the transit times convoluted with the demand distributions, but sometimes, you'll get a distribution that looks something weird like this, this bimodal distribution. Then you just have to be a little more careful, because what you're finding here is the mean and the standard deviation, and so you can't just always assume it's normal. You just want to look at it, and see how much that affects it. So those are the key takeaways from this lesson. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion.
