Week 7 · Recitation · Video 5

So, part three-- suppose demand is instead uniformly distributed with mean 0 and max 300. What is the optimal order quantity? So in the previous problem, we thought that the demand distribution was normally distributed looking something like this. So we thought that different outcomes had different probabilities. Now we're saying this is not the case. Instead, we think that demand, as long as it's anywhere between 0 and 300, any the outcome is equally probable. So it could be 52. It could be 159. It could be 3. Any outcome between 0 and 300 are equally probable. This is what we're saying. So the question is-- we're changing this assumption, right? So how does this change in assumption impact our solution? Well, remember from the previous problem where it said that the solution that we have, Q star equal to the inverse at a critical ratio, which we found to be 0.6. This solution is independent of the distribution. So this was the first time-- once we started evaluating this, that was the first time that the distribution came into the picture at all. Before that, we just looked at calculus without thinking about which type of distribution we were looking at. It was not until we used a spreadsheet software of choice that we really had to evaluate using a specific distribution. And in the previous exercise, that distribution was a normal distribution. Now, we're looking at a uniform distribution. So really, this is still the optimal solution. The only thing that's changed is this f. So let's think about this f, the cumulative distribution function for uniform distribution. If we think of it in a general form, it can be written like this. x minus a divided by b minus a. a will be the minimum and b is the maximum. So really, what it's saying in our case is that the cumulative distribution function is equal to x minus 0 divided by 300 minus 0. So really, x divided by 300. So this is our cumulative distribution function. We can show it graphically like this. If we have x on the x-axis and we have the cumulative on the y-axis, we know it's going to go between 0 and 1. And down here, there's going to be no probability of any event until we reach 0. Once we reach 0, there's going to be equal probability of all outcomes until we reach 300. And after that, we reached our full probability, because there's no probability of anything above 300. We want to take the inverse. So we have some kind of critical ratio, 0.6. We want to take the inverse and see what Q star we end up with. We know that the expression for this cumulative distribution function is given by this, in our case. So really, now we want to use this information in order to find Q star. So since Q star is equal to the inverse at 0.6, it really means that f of Q star is equal to 0.6. That's the same thing. We know that f of q star, that is what we have over here. We just plug in q star divided by 300 is equal to 0.6. So what does that give us? It gives us that the optimal order quantity, q star, is equal to 180. That's our solution.
