Week 2, Lesson 2 · Video 5: Wrap Up & Key Points

So what are the key points from this lesson? We covered a lot actually in here. First, we introduced the idea of time series analysis. And all that it is is pattern matching of data that is distributed over time. We looked at five components. We're focused really on the first four. And these were the level, which we used by the letter a; the trend, which is a persistent change in either direction, which we denote by the b; and then some kind of seasonality factor, where this is a known periodic change, whether it's over a day, a week, a year, a month, whatever, and that's donated by the F. And we also mentioned the error term, and that's just the randomness that's left over after we've accounted for these different components. And then you have the cyclical one, which is a business cycle, those kind of things, where you don't know the length of the period. It's not constant and known. We have these four major components we're going to focus on, like I said, cyclical components. It's a different discussion. It's in a different class. So we're going to focus on those four. And we could think about how we combine them. And we can combine them making some assumptions. One is that I only have a level demand. And so my demand is actually going to look something like this. And I could model it, because it's very stable as a level demand, with just some movement around with the error term. Or I can assume a level plus a trend. And that's going to be something actually up here, where I have this level. That's a. And then whatever the trend is. So my data is going to look something like this. Or I might have something where its seasonality is included. And that's where you might have variance around. So you have these observations around. And you're trying to find what the seasonality effect is. So these are three of the models we're going to focus on. And we'll look at one or two other ones in addition. But those are the main ones we're going to focus on. But we introduce those. And then finally, we introduced three models, a way to do this. And they're all assuming level trend, level demand rather. So where all of these three models we did assumed this first type of model that we have stationary demand. So we're focusing on this. So the first one was cumulative. That's the idea that everything matters. So we assume that the forecasted demand made at time t for time t plus 1 is going to be equal to the sum of all the demand from period one up to that period t. That's the cumulative. So I'm saying the forecast for the next period is the average of all the demand up to that point. Then we looked at the other extreme, the naive, where only yesterday matters. And we're saying the forecasted demand made at time t for time t plus 1, for today, for tomorrow is going to be equal to what happened today, xt. And you can see that these are two extremes. Then we went into the moving average, where we can select how much history we want to include, how much matters. And that's that M, M time periods. And so the forecast for demand made at time t4, t plus 1 is going to be equal to the average of all the demand over the last M periods. And that's what my forecast is going to be. It's the average over those last M time periods, the most recent. So what are the differences between these models? Well, it's obvious if I look at those that there's a different level of volatility. The naive mile down here is very volatile. And the cumulative one up here is very calm. And the moving average is going to be something in the middle. But I can change it depending on what I pick for my M. But another difference is the amount of data that you need. So if you look at both the naive and the cumulative, how much data do I need to include? Well, I only need to keep one piece of information for each SKU, because for naive, all I need to remember is the last one. For the cumulative, all I need is the new piece, because then I know what my t always is. So I just divide t'th of that, 1/t of it, and add that in, because I can always add that to my average. However, for the moving average, you have to keep M items for each SKU, because let's say I've got these in my last four observations. And now I'm going to this fifth one. I've got to throw this last one out and include this new one. So I need to know the value of that last observation before I can figure out what the moving average is. So the moving average calculation requires more data. And you might think, well, who cares? Data is cheap. It's easy to store stuff. But when you're talking about 100,000 SKUs and I'm storing these at say 2,000 to 3,000 stores and I'm doing this over different periods of time, it adds up. And so you can think about this. The cumulative and the naive take less data. And we'll talk about this more as we go on, because different techniques we'll use will be more or less data intensive. So equally important to what the differences are, let's talk about the similarities between these three models, because they're more similar than you might think. So the first thing is they're all assuming level demand. We all assume stationary demand. So it's looking something like this. So we're all trying to find what that level is. All three of these models. There's no trending. There's no steps. There's no seasonality. Therefore, all of these models lag to some degree. Even the naive one will lag a little bit. So if there's a trend underlying and I use one of these models, I will always lag. The other thing that they do is that they whatever the amount of history that they choose to consider, whether it's all the history, only yesterday, or a certain amount, M, we always use equal weighting. So for naive, there's only one. So it's going to be 100%. For cumulative, if I have 100 observations, each observation counts 1/100. If my M is 4, then each observation counts 1/4. So I'm treating all my history the same. The only difference here is how much history do I actually consider. But how I treat them is the same. It's equal weighting. So my most recent observation matters just as much as my oldest observation that I'm considering, whether it's all the history for cumulative, or just M periods for moving average. So we introduced a lot in here. These are simple models, but they kind of get to the core of a lot of trade offs we make for forecasting. So if you have any questions, comments, suggestions, use the discussion.
