Week 3 · Recitation: Regression in Excel · Video 3

Welcome to the simple linear regression in SAS example for this week. In this lesson, we're going to be going over an example called "water you paying for"? In this, you believe that population density affects water prices. You gather some data on population density and water prices, and you want to perform a regression analysis to see if you're correct. So you get your data. And you can see your data over here on the right hand side. And you're going to use that to conduct a regression analysis to see if water prices are indeed affected by population per square mile or population density. So we're going to go over to SAS and we're going to try using that now. Once we're in SAS, we're going to open up our tab separated input's file that is located in our Copy Paste Data folder. And what this is going to do-- it's going to let us input our data in a tab separated input form so SAS can understand what we're inputting. So we're going to open that up. We're going to name our data. So I'll start with this one. We'll call us one our Regression. And we're going to specify our input. Our input's going to be population density. We'll call it PopDen. And then it's going to be water prices. So we're going to call it Water, WaterP. In doing this, we can now copy and paste below the values that we had in our slideshow. So here are our values that we had in our slide show. Now this pops out a little bit here. And that's just because this number here is so large, it's still tab separated, so it should go in correctly. We can double check to make sure that it goes in correctly once we run our data. So we're going to do that now and see what happens. So upon running our data, you can see that everything did indeed go in correctly like it should. Once we have that, we're going to go into our Tasks and Utilities tab over here. We're going to open up our Tasks, we're going to open up Statistics, and we're going to go into Regression Analysis. Regression Analysis is right here, Linear Regression. And once we open that, it will give us a point and click interface so we can easily write the code in SAS, or SAS essentially does this for us. So we're going to choose our file. Our file is actually Regression. So we're going to navigate down to our Regression file in our work folder. Once we have our Regression file open, we can choose a dependent variable. Our dependent variable is going to be the water price, because we want to predict what our water price is going to be based on population density. Now we're going to put some continuous variables. Our continuous variables are actually going to be Population Density. So we'll say OK for Population Density, and we're going to move on to our model. Our model has got to include more than just an intercept. So we're going to edit our model, and we'll include our Population Density as well. So we'll hit that. We'll add it over, and so you can see now that our model effects are actually including Intercept and Population Density. We're going to hit OK there. And our models good to go. We can go over to our Options, and see if there's anything we want to change. So we can actually use a 95% Confidence Interval or other things for this. For now, we're just going to run it as is, and we're going to see the output that comes from it. Once you run your Regression, you get output that looks something like this. And this can be a little bit confusing. So we're going to quickly go through what each thing is. Up here you have your Analysis of Variance Table. Primarily in this, you want to focus on your p-value from your F tests. What this is-- it's a test of how good your model is in general. And then down here, you have another box of information that tells you all about your model. In this box, your primary focus point should really be in this R-squared or this adjusted R-squared value. What these two say is how much variance your model is actually explaining. So when your data goes up and down, how well is your model actually explaining that? And then down here, you actually have your parameter estimates. In this, you're looking to see how well population density actually affects water prices. So you want to see if you have a positive parameter estimate, and down here you do see that. So you can see that as population density goes up, water price also is expected to go up. Now you want to know that that's not 0. Looking over here, you can see that even with an alpha level of 0.01, your p-value is saying that your parameter estimate for population density is not 0. So you can see that population density is indeed affecting water prices based on this analysis that you're currently running. Down below, SAS has more information in the form of diagnostic panels. Once you become more proficient in using regression analysis, these can be very helpful in making good models.
