Week 8, Lesson 3 · Video 11

OK so this concludes our world wind tour through warehouses. It was a lot of material that we covered. And again, as I said in the very beginning, we're only scratching the surface. This could be a whole course. So we focused mainly on what happens within the four walls. So we talked about the receiving operation, the put-away, storage, the pick, and the check, pack, and ship operations, as well as value-added services and returns. We focused in on the core functions and we spent probably the most time on the picking. Picking, like we said, takes 50% to 60% of the labor costs. That's the real driver there. But hopefully you've got a good feel for how I want to set up my receiving operations, how that influences my put-away, influences where I store and retrieve, influences how I pick my orders, and then how my check, pack, and ship. They all have to work together. And so we went through different flow patterns. And we mentioned many times that if you have the opportunity to do a drop ship or direct ship you should do it. Why? Because you reduce the number of touches. It's a more direct movement. Now if it's a very small quantity, then you are almost forced to go and use less than full truckload or full container movements. Then you want to use consolidation. But if you can do a direct or a drop ship, you should. We went through different flow patterns. And the big, overarching point here was, as the item that I'm distributing gets smaller there's more cost, there's more handling. So the most efficient method is that drop ship. If I can't do a drop ship, and I have to go through some kind of consolidation center or distribution center, try and look at cross docking. See if that works, because then I only add two more touches to it, the inventory never sit still. If it doesn't justify that, then look at a unit loading, where I do pallet in, to pallet out. And I store the pallet, so I never break the pallets. If I need to go to cases, then I can go back to a case pick and down to an [? Echis ?] pick. And each of those require a lot more activities-- more touches, more opportunities for damage, slows things down. So the big lesson here was look for the fastest flow pattern whenever you can. Now for a lot of e-commerce operations you're going to be living down here in the [? Echis ?] world. And so there's a lot of talk and a lot of work going on to improve that process. But if you can keep things down to the pallets, keep them there. We talked about the activity based layout. This is the generic warehouse layout in the u-shape. And the things you want to move faster with the least amount of touches you keep at the top. You see where the cross docking is, and then other things. The more you have things go through the system, the more handling and more costs it in accrues. So the trade-offs and general rules that we tried to reiterate was that you have two competing objectives for warehouses or DCs. You want to store stuff and you want to flow stuff. And this is a natural trade-off between space and time. If I want to store as much as possible-- maximum utilization, many, many shelves, really dense-- that means it's going to take more time to get in and out to retrieve things. But I'll be maximizing my utilization of space. On the other hand, if I want to make it so it is very efficient to get in and out and really optimize that throughput, I'm going to need more space. So to go faster, you need more space. So this is the fundamental trade-off between space and time. And this is why, in some parts of the world where, for example, labor is very expensive, you have more automation. Other parts of the world where labor is not as expensive, you will have a very different set of operations. And so just to review, we talked about the pallets and how they order cases, inter packs and pieces, and the general handling rule. And hopefully we've reiterated this enough-- the smaller the unit, the greater the cost. So I'd rather handle one pallet that has 1,000 units than 1,000 units handled each. Just makes sense. This goes back to the touches. You try to keep things in the largest unit as long as possible. And the fundamental warehousing design element is match your inbound to your outbound size. If pallets come in and pallets go out, you'll design that very differently if you receive, say, cases and [? Echis ?] out. And so always think about what you're receiving and what you're expecting to distribute, because, for example, it's rare, it's hard to integrate sometimes a fulfillment center that is serving mainly [? Echis ?] with a DC that is mainly serving pallets out. They're very different operations. And in fact, what happens a lot of time is you have a warehouse within a warehouse, and they're almost operated separately, except for maybe the receipt and the put-away. Anyway, this kind of concludes our discussion. My primary references for this talk-- there are two main ones that I really liked. One is John Bartholdi and Steven Hackman's book. This covers anything analytic dealing with warehouses and distribution centers. Go to the website, there are free materials out there. There's some great stuff. If you want to dive in deeper to the analytical side of warehousing and DCs, this is the place to go. Ed Frizzell's book is very good for understanding practical applications and what you need to know to actually set up a warehouse. I like [? Gwyn ?] Richard's book. It's more of a European feel to it, so it gives you a different perspective. And then the last book is more like a workbook. [INAUDIBLE] Napolitanos. And so this is something, if you have the nuts and bolts put something together, they go into infinite detail of types of equipment, material handling, cost allocations, and things like that. So they're all different references from different sources. I really like the Bartholdi and Hackman one. I think it does a great overview and especially if you go a little deeper. OK, well that's about it. So please, I hope you enjoyed the videos. Use the quick questions, use the practice problems, and use the discussion forum to discuss how you experience and what your experience is with warehouses. Have fun.
