Week 1, Lesson 1 · Video 6: What are the major challenges

So now let's talk about some of the major challenges for Supply Chain Management and Logistics. In other words, why is it so hard. And there are many, many reasons. Let me just give you a hand full. Let me give you six. The first one is the idea of metrics. How do I measure a system? Remember we talked about supply chains as being end to end, and covering multiple firms, multiple pieces of each organization. So to have a metric the ties that altogether sounds easy, but there's a trade off between the breadth, or the length of the supply chain that I cover, and how valid it is to each individual member of that supply chain. And so no matter what system of metrics you have, it's very difficult to get something that really looks at the end to end performance as well as each individual segment. And so this is one big challenge. How do you measure this? And one way that people have been overcoming this, is they look at something called Outcome Based Logistics. And the idea is your primary metric for the effectiveness of the whole supply chain is at the very end. So the idea of having a perfect order, or a perfect shelf. How everything contributes to that. And so the idea is I'm providing this outcome instead of delivering number of items, I just want it to be perfect. I want to make sure that it's filled at all times. In the aerospace industry, I'm selling uptime of hours. So how many hours will my aircraft be running? And so the idea is I'm selling an outcome, not just an input. But anyway it's a part of a larger problem, how do you measure this system that covers multiple functions, multiple companies. Another challenge is looking at the politics in the power. Who wins? So if I look in supply chains, you know, I can compare little nano stores, or mom and pop shops, versus mega stores. They're going to be treated very differently by their vendors. And so the mega stores, the really large, global retailers for example, will have very different deals that they can cut because of economies of scale. But then you can also look at the power between say a mega retailer, a very large store, and a very large manufacturer of Consumer Package Goods, or CPG. So you have these two dinosaurs, or these two behemoths, and the question is who wins, and who controls the supply chain. There's a lot of politics and power between players, based on how much power they exude in that supply chain. Then we talk about visibility. Why is it hard? Because all the data is stored separately. Things are in very different parts. It's not like there's one supply chain database. Typically, every company will have its own. And so what can I see, who can see it, and how quickly can you see it. All parties don't have equal access. And just because, you know, we talk about data in the cloud, and massive databases. It doesn't mean that it's all shared, and so easily accessible. So visibility into what's happening in the supply chain, since it's going end to end, is always a big challenge. Again, because I'm crossing time zones, cultures, geographies, boundaries of stores, or of companies, boundaries of different countries, themselves. So some other reasons why this is so difficult. The whole idea of uncertainty. There's uncertainty in everything that we deal with the supply chains. The demand itself. We'll spend three whole weeks looking at demand forecasting. The idea that the product demand is getting harder and harder to predict, because we're having shorter life cycles. So think of cell phones. When I was growing up, we had one phone in the house, and we had it for 25 years. Now if you look at cellphones, it's almost a fashion item. And so they come out on 12 to 18 months cycles. So there's always a shorter life cycle. And so there's more chance and more challenge to predicting and forecasting with the demand will be. There's also variability in manufacturing yield. You look at items ranging from chips, to complicated machinery. And so there is always a different yield, and it's never certain. I could also look at unreliable sourcing of raw materials from the input side of things. I could also look at lead times. There's variability and uncertainty in almost every aspect of a supply chain. Then you see increased complexity where it's getting harder and harder to manage this supply chain for many different reasons. One is that the number of SKUs or Stock Keeping Units, a SKU, is increasing. There's more and more products being offered, and we'll talk about why in a couple lectures, but it gets harder and harder as I have more items to it to manage. I have my customers are becoming more demanding, and they're starting to diverge in what they really want. So I have these very demanding customers that are asking for very different things. And then I've had many different ways to serve them. This whole idea of an Omni-Channel approach, where I can, for example in the retail side, I can place an order by-- on my cell phone, I might pick it up in store, and I might pay for it online. Or I might view it and order it online, have it delivered to me, and pay it some other way. So you have all these different ways of replenishing and taking care of customer demands and different channels that are new and emerging. And then finally, another reason why it's so hard is that supply chains are global. And you know, the supply chains never sleep. They never close, because they're always open at some time zone in the world. So almost every firm sources, sells, and manufactures across the globe. This means they're crossing multiple regions, time zones, languages and cultures. So all these complications, and there's many, many more. These are just six big ones. These are the reasons why supply chain management is so hard, and why we're all listening and trying to get better at it, so we can improve for our own companies.
