Week 8 · Recitation · Video 1

Hi, everybody. Welcome to this third recitation session on inventory management. My name is Fredrick Eng Larsson, and today we're going to talk about multi-period models or multi-period policies. So remember last time. Last time we looked at single-period models. So in those models, we assume that we have a single period of time, and at the end of that period, the product that we considered could no longer be sold at full price. So in these models, that's no longer the case. Now we're going to look at a product that we think we're going to sell for a foreseeable future. And within this time that we have where we're going to sell the product, we're going to restock our inventory. So instead, we could still think of time on the x-axis, like this on a timeline, and we're often going to illustrate this by considering the inventory position, just like you saw in the last lesson. As time progresses, this inventory position will decrease, and it will decrease not linearly, because we're going to consider stochastic demand, so that means that the inventory position will decrease with some random fluctuations as time progresses. What these models that we're going to look at today, what they're trying to figure out are two decisions. One is how much should we order every time we place a replenishment order? So we want to figure out a quantity that we want to order when we place a replenishment order to our inventory. That's the first decision. The other decision that we're trying to figure out is the timing of this order. So when are we going to place the replenishment order? Two decisions-- one is a quantity decision just like in the single payer models. How much should we put in an inventory? And the second decision is, since we're considering an infinite time horizon, when are we going to place those orders? So as you saw in the lesson, there are different policies for how you review your inventory, different policies for how you set the rules on making these decisions, and today we're going to look at a few of those and how you calculate the different parameters. So I hope you're ready. Let's get started.
