Week 3 · Recitation: Regression in Excel · Video 1

Welcome to the Regression in Excel recitation. My name is Connor Makowski and today I'm going to be teaching you how you can do some basic regression in Excel. In this, we're going to be covering simple linear regression and we're going to just jump right into an example. This is the "Water you paying for?" example. In this, you believe that population density affects water prices. So you go out and you gather some data on population density and water prices, and you want to perform a regression analysis to see if you are correct. So over here you can see that you have your population per square mile, or your population density, and over here you can see that you have your water price in US dollars. So we're going to go over to Excel and we're going to perform a brief regression analysis on this data. So once we get to Excel, we can now see our data in Excel spreadsheet form. Now, once you get here, you want to go to the Data tab and you want to go to this little Analysis box and hit Data Analysis. Now, this should be installed by you before starting this recitation. If you have any questions on how to do this, navigate back to Week 0 to follow the install instructions for this. Now, in this, you're going to go down to Regression. You're going to select Regression and you're going to hit OK. Now it wants you to put a y-range in and a x-range in. Your y-range is what you're trying to predict. So you're trying to predict your water price, in US dollars, and you're going to be using your x-range to predict it-- so your population per square mile. So I've highlighted the labels here, or the tops of the columns, and what that does is it lets Excel know what the names of the columns are when it outputs some analysis dataset for us to look at. So we're going to hit this little Labels button, letting Excel know that labels are indeed put there, and we're simply going to hit OK. Now, there are other options that you can do down here, but we're just going to hit OK for now. We're going to get our analysis. And our analysis comes out on a new worksheet, and here you have a summary output for this. In this, you have different statistics that SAS has calculated. So you have your r-squared, your adjusted r-squared, you have different standard error things. Down here, you have your ANOVA table. And so when you're looking at this, the things you really need to focus on are your r-squared-- that explains how much your x values explain the variance in your y values. So your r-squared and your adjusted r-squared show how well your data explains the variance in your model. Now, down here you also want to focus on your f-test of your ANOVA table. And what that does is it tells you the general significance of your model. So if there were no predictors in your model, it compares that to your current model. So in this, you can see that there is a high level of significance that your model is significantly better than a standard mean model. Now, down here, you're going to want to look at your coefficients. Let me expand those. So these are your coefficients for your estimators. So you want to estimate your intercept? This is your coefficient for your intercept. Meaning, on average, you pay $0.85 per bottle of water when there is zero population density. Now down here you have your population per square mile, so your population density, and what this is is the amount that every person per square mile goes up, how much your water price will go up. In this, you can see that it is about 1/10 of a cent. So you can see that every time one person gets added to a population square mile it goes up by 1/10 of a percent. Now, you can also see the standard error for this and the p-value for this. And so this p-value tells you whether or not it's-- whether you can significantly say that it's not zero. So there you have it, your Excel Regression Output.
