Week 8, Lesson 1 · Video 7

So now let's look at the Item Fill Rate. The Item Fill Rate is simply defined as the fraction of the customer demand that's met routinely with the inventory we have on hand. And it's going to be equal to 1 minus the fraction that we expect to be short. So thinking about the logic for the decision rule that we're going to set up, think about for the (s, Q) System that we're operating under: we order Q each cycle, the Economic Order Quantity, whatever Q, we order. So the fraction that we're going to be short is that Expected Units Short over Q. Now you can also think of Q as the expected amount of demand that I'll see over the Replenishment Period. Not the Lead Time, the whole Replenishment Period. Remember, Q is meant to be the Cycle Stock. So we expect to serve Q units of demand each Replenishment Cycle. So, Expected Unit Short over Q is the fraction that we're going to be short and therefore the Item Fill Rate is going to be 1 minus that. And if we assume a normal distribution, then from our previous lectures we saw that the Expected Unit Short for normal distribution is sigma(DL), or the standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time, times that G(k), or the unit normal loss function. So, all we need to do is calculate this desired G(k), and then find the appropriate k value. And then add that back in to find the S, or the Reorder Point. So looking at the equations, the Item Fill Rate is simply going to be equal to 1 minus the Expected Unit Short over that Q. And remember, Q is the demand I expect to see over the Replenishment Cycle. So this is the expected demand over the entire Replenishment Cycle. The Item Fill Rate is 1 minus that, and the Expected Units Short, I'm just plugging in here assuming a normal distribution. So I can use that Unit Normal Loss function. And then, all I'm going to do down for this last equation is to rearrange the terms to solve for G(k). And you can see that it's just going to be Q, the order quantity, over the standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time, times 1 minus the Item Fill Rate. OK, let's do the same example. So I've got the exact same problem again, except now I want to find the (s, Q) Policy for 99% Item Fill Rate. So finding the expected demand and standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time has not changed, because whatever performance metric you decide to use will not change the underlying demand. So I want to solve for G(k) using that equation we just looked at. And plugging in the numbers, I get a 0.0331. Try this at home. Make sure you get the same numbers. And again, if you're off by 1 or 2 in the fourth decimal place, that's OK. It's just a rounding error. Now once I have this G(k), I can go to my unit normal table and I can find that this corresponds to a k equals 1.45. If I wanted to, I could also use my equations in the spreadsheet for G(k) and do trial and error, or goal seek, to find the appropriate k that gives me a G(k) of 0.0331. Either way works. But once I have the k, the problem's almost done. I'm just going to take the expected Demand over Lead Time, take that k, multiply it by the standard deviation of Demand Over Lead Time, and that gives me 4,660 units. So my policy becomes order 5,200 when Inventory Position is less than or equal to 4,660 units.
