Week 8, Lesson 1 · Video 3

So let's dive into Continuous Review Policies. The assumptions that we have here, for the Continuous Review Policies, are the same that we had for the Base Stock. We're going to still assume that we have a variable and random demand. Our Review Time is continuous. Our planning horizon is infinite. And for Excess Demand, we're going to assume if we have extra demand more than what we have for inventory, we will have lost orders. So when we think about Continuous Review Policies, there are many different policies, but there are two predominant ones. The first one we're going to talk about and spend a lot of time in this lesson on is the Order-Point, Order-Quantity, or (s, Q) system. So if you look at the inventory chart in the left hand side, and if this is what our demand looks like, and remember this horizontal axis is time and the vertical axis is the Inventory Position, then what the policy is saying, I'm going to order an amount, a quantity, Q, whenever my Inventory Position falls below this s. Clean that up a little bit. Whenever it falls below the s, or the Reorder Point. Whenever that happens, I place an order. Now for this first occurrence here, I place the order when it crossed, but notice the demand was further down. I sold a lot of items that day. I'm going to order Q. And so, here at this next period, when my Inventory Position dropped below s, I ordered Q, and so this amount is the same as this amount. So the policy is order Q if the Inventory Position, not the Inventory On Hand, remember, it's the Inventory Position -- which is the Inventory On Hand plus what I have on order. So whenever that crosses below this Reorder Point s, then I place that order. This is also called the Two-Bin system. So what you can think is when the first demand comes and my level of inventory is above s, it's in this area. Consider that one bin, and let's call that Cycle Stock. And then, whenever I deplete that and I'm now in this part of the inventory, below s, consider that Safety Stock. So this is like having two bins or two barrels of inventory. And first, I serve it out of one bin, whenever that's empty, I place an order for a new one, and I start ordering out of the second bin. And then, hopefully a new bin comes in before that's depleted. So it's considered a Two-Bin system. So this is the (s, Q) Order Policy. Another Continuous Review Policy is the Order Point, Order-Up-to-Level, or (s, S) Policy. It's a little s and a big S. And so, looking at the inventory chart, and we have a similar demand pattern here, the policy has two parameters. This little s, which again is a Reorder Point, and this big S, which is an order up to point. And so, this is like a Min-Max Policy. So the policy is: whenever the Inventory Position falls below s, like right here, then I'm going to place an order. How much will the order be? It will be up until this big S level. So it will go all the way up to that. And then again, here's the next point where I place that order. And you can see, for each of these policies the inventory, the order shows up L units of time later, which is the Replenishment Lead Time. This is sometimes called the Min-Max system. Because when the inventory position falls below a min you order up to the max. The big difference between the (s, S) system and the (s, Q) system is that for the (s, Q) system, I order the same amount, Q, every time I place an order. For the (s, S) system, the order quantity might be different every time, because I'm going to order up to that level. So if I have a big demand surge here and it's lower, I'm going to order more to get up to that S level. While for the (s, Q) system, you can see from this first example, from this first order here, I order Q each time. I don't order up to the s plus Q, I order Q. So these are two Continuous Review policies. We're going to dive in a lot deeper into the (s, Q) policy for the rest of this lesson.
