Week 8, Lesson 3 · Video 2

So why do we have warehouses anyway? Well, the. First reason is the same reason why we hold inventory in the first place. We've had many different lectures and discussions about how much inventory to store, whether it's safety stock or cycle stock. And so we need a place to keep it. And that's what warehouses do. They enable us to better match supply and demand. That's store function. And so we know that demand and supply aren't always in sync. Sometimes the demand is very spiky, sometimes your supply, in agriculture for example, only happens at certain times of the year. So you need to store product to buffer for unexpected shortages and supply or unexpected increases in demand. So we all know that. The second reason is something that we haven't spent too much time talking about. We'll talk more when we get into transportation. And that's the whole idea of enabling consolidation opportunities, the flow objective. So think about, if I have a larger shipment, a full truckload for example, I'll have a lower per unit cost for transportation than if I had a smaller truck or used less than truckload transportation. Sometimes I get benefits if I do a bulk buying discount, minimum order quantity. These are all the kind of things that favor larger shipments. So these consolidation opportunities. To have a consolidation opportunity, you need to have some place to consolidate. And that's another function that warehouses and distribution centers serve. So look at it this way, suppose I had m origins, those are the red circles, and I had n destinations, those blue squares. If I wanted to serve every destination by every origin, I would need m times n transportation links. I would move between each of them. Now, another way to do this is to put in a center in the middle. In this case, all of the origins go to that distribution center and then there's flow out. So just by looking at it it's obvious that there's less transportation. The number of arcs that are connecting the origins and destinations go from m times n to m plus n. Now, there's other things that happen. There's going to be some handling issues here, there might be some other issues of time, and we'll talk about this when we get into transportation, but the big benefit that having a distribution center or a warehouse is that it allows me to consolidate into fewer movements. Now the different types of warehouses in the supply chain. So if I look here, from a manufacturing plant up here in the top, down to retail stores in the bottom right, and individual houses in the bottom left. So I might have raw material warehouses, or work in process, or WIP warehouses, or finish good houses at a manufacturing plant that handle each of those stages. They'll be a little bit different. Think about the raw materials warehouse. If I'm a manufacturer of say, consumer packaged goods like shampoo and soap, I might have bulk chemicals. The work in process could include, I don't know, packaging, things like that. The finished good inventory of that warehouse, that's all the stuff that's ready to be shipped out. So they're serving different purposes, They'll, be co-located near the plant but they serve very different purposes. And they usually won't be co-located. Now the finished good warehouse will feed into a distribution center. This distribution center will also probably receive goods from other finished good warehouses for different products. Because at the end of the day, what we're doing here is now consolidating. And from the distribution center we might go to a number of regional or local distribution centers. Each of those might serve a number of stores. This is how most retailers are set up. But there's also another link you can do. This distribution center could feed into a fulfillment center. In fulfillment centers and distribution centers, they sound the same, . They're a little bit different and we'll talk about why they're different, but essentially it's a function of what comes in and what goes out. Fulfillment centers are specifically designed to serve to individuals. They're mainly used for e-commerce. So here we have, they're are all warehouses, they're all distribution centers, but they're a little bit different. They serve different purposes. So they'll be set up a little differently. So different facilities serve different roles. The raw material storage is in a raw material warehouse. You have the WIP warehouses, finished goods, local warehouses, . Those are mainly functions of storing things then you have fulfillment centers, DCs, or distribution centers, and something called a mixing center. And these are all about those consolidation opportunities for maximizing flow. So when you look at this, there's really a major trade-off for what you're trying to do within your facility. Am I primarily storing? Or am I primarily trying to flow things? So when we look at a mixing center, this is where a lot of retailers are doing this across the world, is where they take things, small shipments from many different vendors, combine them, and then send them out to common destinations. They use cross-docking. They try to minimize the amount of inventory that's kept there. Things move very quick. So it might be pallets in, . Pallets out so they try not to store things as opposed to a finished good warehouse, you want to have inventory there because that's what you're buffering. So there's a primary trade-off here. And between these two competing objectives, I'm trying to store and I'm trying to flow. And this gets to a fundamental trade-off, space versus time. You can think about this in storing anything, if you have a garage, a shed, or even your food pantry. If I have a lot of space and I use that, that makes it more efficient for me to get stuff. The time goes down, the labor costs. , If I'm forced to keep things very tightly in one little cabinet or one area then I use little space, but it might take more time, more labor, . To actually retrieve things This. Same simple principle applies across every DC and every warehouse it's competing trade-offs, space versus time. And it's really a function. Am I looking to maximize my storage, my max utilization of the space? Or am I looking to optimize my throughput, my flow? There's another key thing that differentiates and explains why we have warehouses. that's the form of the product. The form of the product is not the same as you go from a raw material to final consumption. In fact, it tends to get smaller and smaller as you move downstream. So you might start with containers, loads, or trailer loads that's full of pallets, pallets consist of cases or cartons and they're layered in these tiers, and then the case or carton might be an interpack, and then the interpack is a piece or an each, or a unit. So those are the SKUs that we've been talking about for inventory. So we talk about SKU manager, we're talking about this. We're talking about trying to set the level at the eaches level, when in fact, in a warehouse you might never see the each. You might only be moving palettes. So the general rule is, and this is common sense, the smaller the handling unit the greater the handling cost. If I have to move 100 items, cups call them, it's probably easier to move one case of 100 cups than 100 individual cups. Makes sense, right? So this explains why I tend to have bigger size when I'm upstream. As I get further downstream, then I have to distribute further. So if you can, you want to keep the size as large as possible because it's easier to handle a large volume. So. The size impacts the design and the operations of a warehouse and it's really a function of what comes in and what goes out. So I might have some facilities that there are pallets in and pallets out, might be a cross-dock, might be just a unit warehouse. In this case, you're going to have a very special type of, set of operations, . As opposed to when you have pallets going to cases because now I have to break those pallets apart even more, when I pallets coming in to these eaches, or pieces going out, so you can think about the amount of handling and the amount of picking that you need for that. So this gets to the next trade-off, or really a design element, and that's looking at the ratio or the comparison about what's coming inbound and what's going outbound because that dictates a lot of what you need to do within the warehouse.
