Week 8, Lesson 1 · Video 1

In this lesson, we're going to develop Inventory Models for Probabilistic Demand. We're going to cover some of the more basic concepts, such as Level Of Service and the Total Cost. The notation that we're going to use is on this sheet. Most of it should be very familiar to you. Everything on the right hand side might be new, and so this is here for your reference. I will introduce and define each term as I use it during the different videos. So we've been looking at Inventory Replenishment Policies for a little while now, and remember that all that the policy is doing is telling me how much to order and when to order. We usually look at two metrics when we determine our policy, and one is the Inventory Position, which remember, is the sum of the inventory we have On Hand (the actual materials you have right there available to you), plus whatever you have On Order, already coming to you, and sometimes we call that Pipeline Inventory, minus any Backorders-- anything you've committed to people (where they ordered it, and you said you'll get one to them but you're Backordered at that time). So this is our Inventory Position. Remember, it's not just what you have on hand-- it includes what you've ordered. The other thing that we're going to be looking at more and more is that Demand over the Lead Time. Remember, Lead Time is the amount of time it takes from when you place the order to when you receive the order. And so the amount of demand we're going to require over that time is an important measurement that we want to capture. And we'll be calling that mu (DL) or Expected Demand over Lead time. So we will be covering five different methods, or five different types or ways, to come up with different Inventory Policies. And they all differ based on the assumptions that are made. And most of the assumptions are specifically about the demand. So if I have stable and deterministic demand, then I can use an EOQ policy, that Economic Order Quantity. And the policy will simply be: order Q* every time T* time periods, or order Q* when the Inventory Position is equal to that Expected Demand over Lead time. Now remember, this is deterministic demand, so I can make that assumption that it's equal to that expected demand. We also looked at Single Period Models, the Newsvendor problem, and here we introduced variable or random demand but it was only over one period. We could not replenish within that period. And so the policy was to order Q* at the start of a period, where Q* was the amount such that the probability that the demand did not exceed that Q was equal to this Critical Ratio. Remember, the Critical Ratio is just the ratio of the Shortage Cost over the sum of the Excess and Shortage Cost. So determining that Critical Ratio determines the Q. In this lesson we're going to talk about the third method, or the third type, and this is the Base Stock Policy. And the idea here is that it's a One-for-One Replenishment Policy: whatever was ordered, I'm going to place an order for that. So if I'm selling widgets, and someone buys six widgets, I'm going to place an order for six to replace those. And so it repeats itself over and over. We'll also introduce a Continuous Review Policy called (s, Q), and this is Event Based. So a Continuous Review Policy means I'm constantly looking at my inventory, and so when it passes some event, or passes some level, it can trigger an event. And in this case, the policy is: order Q* when the Inventory Position is less than or equal to s. And little s is the Reorder point, and we'll talk much more about that. So the Continuous Review Policy, or the (s, Q) policy has two parameters: s, the reorder point, and Q, the amount that I order. In the next lesson, we'll talk about Periodic Review Policies, and, specifically, we'll talk about the (R, S) policy. This is Time Based. A Periodic Review means I don't look at my inventory constantly; I look at it on a periodic basis -- once a week, once a month, every two weeks, whatever that is. And the policy is going to be: order up to big S units every R time periods, so R is my Review Period. So we'll talk more about this one in a later lesson. But before I get into the details of the Base Stock Policy, let me just make an aside on how to convert different times because you're going to be doing this a lot. So for example, suppose I have this simple problem: I have an annual demand for product that is Normally distributed, and the annual demand is 450,000 units, and my standard deviation is 22,000, and this is over a year-- it's an annual demand. So I want to find out what my Lead Time Demand would be. So Lead Time for this replenishment is seven days, or one week. And so the question is, how would I find my mu and my sigma for the Demand over Lead Time? Well, I have to do three things. I want to find what the Expected Demand will be; I want to find out what the standard deviation of that Demand over Lead Time would be; and I want to find out-- is the distribution different for that smaller time period? So for the Expected Demand over Lead Time, I'm simply going to take that 450,000 units per year and divide it by the number of weeks per year because my Lead Time is one week. So I divide by 52, and end up with 8,654 units. That's pretty obvious. Everyone could've figured that out. But if I want to look at standard deviation, sometimes people get confused. So now we have to make an assumption here, and the assumption we're making is that each period, each week, is Identically and Independently Distributed, i.i.d. And that the distribution in each week is the same, and, if that's the case, then I know that the sum of the variances from each week sums up to N times that variance. So the variances add up. So in our problem, our simple example here, I have the variance of the year, and that's going to be equal to 52 times the variance in the week. Which means for standard deviation over the week, it's going to be equal to the standard deviation of the year divided by the square root of 52 because I'm doing standard deviations here, not variances. And it's just the standard deviation, or the square root of the variance. So my standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time is going to be that 22,000 units from here, it's going to be divided by the square root of 52, or 3,050 units. So my Demand over Lead Time for this example would be it's normally distributed, and that's because I made this assumption that they're identically distributed, with a mean of 8,654 units and a standard deviation of 3,050. So the rule that you should use when you convert between one period of time to another, is that you just need to think: am I going from a long period to a short, or a short period to a long. And you need to remember, how many short time periods are there in my long period. So If I'm converting from years to weeks, I know that there are 52 weeks in a year. If I'm going from years to months, then I know that there are 12. So the rule of converting from a long to a short, you know, this is what we just did-- we went from annual to weekly -- you just look at the N, the number of short periods that are within the long period, and for the expected value, you just divide by that. For the standard deviation, you just divide by the square root of that. Going the other way, instead of dividing, you just multiply. And so going from a short period, you multiply it by the number of periods of the short within the long period. And the same thing for the standard deviation. You take the standard deviation of the short period and multiply it by the square root of the number of times the short periods are within a long period or N. So this is a simple rule. You'll use this because your Lead Time will never be in the same time units as your demand or something else. So you always need to make sure you bring things into the same common time frames.
