Week 4, Lesson 3 · Video 7

In this extension to the EOQ, we're going to consider if we have finite replenishment. And so what this means is we're going to loosen the assumption on lead time. If I order Q*, instead of that whole quantity showing up all at once, it's going to start coming in increments, because I'm making it as I go. And so once the order is placed, I'm going to start making this product in my plant on whatever machine I have, and I'm going to satisfy the demand out of that, until I accumulate enough. So let's take a look at this and see how this affects things. So let's take an example where I assume that the production rate is P units per time. So that's the rate at which I can produce items. And so I have some questions. First of which, how long does it take to produce Q units, whatever Q is. Well, if I know what my order quantity Q is going to be, and I know my rate of production, then it's simply going to be that total amount divided by the rate. So it's Q/P. So let's think about this for a second. What happens if P takes the value of infinity? If instantaneously it produces-- my machine is so fast, it makes things almost instantaneously-- well, then that means that the production slope line would just be a vertical line, and essentially I would default back to "EOQ with instantaneous delivery". Now, what do you think the minimum value that this rate can be, this production rate? Let's suppose if P was less than the demand rate D. What would that mean? Well, that would mean I would never catch up. I start producing it, and the demand is faster than the rate at which I can produce. And if that's the case, then I need to make it ahead of time, and I can't replenish it when the order comes in. So therefore, I'd have to start making things earlier. So we know that the bounds, then, are going to be between infinity and D, the demand rate. But let's go on a little further. And so we look at what the demand slope is. And it's negative here, because it's showing my inventory on hand as it depletes over time, based on the demand. And so the question I want to know is, what is the accumulation rate? So as I'm producing it at P and it's going away at slope, -D, then the accumulation rate is simply the sum of those. It's going to be the production minus the demand, P - D. So that's the slope of this line. And so the next question we want to ask, what is the most I'm going to have? Because the beauty here is, as I start producing, I don't hold any inventory. So I'm producing and satisfying the demand all along here. But I'm not holding any inventory, therefore I'm not incurring any inventory holding costs until my machine is going to stop at some point because I'm going to have enough to satisfy demand. That's that maximum inventory point. What is that going to be? Well, it's simply going to be this rate, (P - D), times that time, Q/P. And if I clean it up a little bit, I get this term. And all I did was multiply through and cancel out the Ps. But it's the same thing, it's just (Q/P)*(P-D). And so then the question is, what is my average inventory on hand. If I'm producing at this rate P, my demand is at D -- I'm going to produce Q/P time until I can stop, because I've created enough for that replenishment cycle. And so that average inventory on hand is simply going to be whatever this height is and over two, because remember, the replenishment cycle, we're at an infinite horizon. So it's just going to be 1/2 base times height. 1/2 of the base, which is one replenishment cycle, times height, which is my maximum level of inventory. So my average inventory on hand is (1 - D/P)*(Q/2). So how is this going to change the Q? Well, we can think about it and because I'm not being charged in anything for my inventory for this period until I hit that maximum amount, then you would guess that this will increase what my Q* is going to be. So if I just go through and create the total relevant cost equation, notice that the transaction cost, the ordering cost, doesn't change. Its still c_t times the number of replenishments or cycles I expect to have in the course the year, D/Q. And then here, this is just the holding cost. So I have h*c, the unit purchase price times the inventory holding rate. And then this Q/2, this is just my average quantity on hand: Q times ((1 - D)/P)/2. So my economic production quantity-- I'm just going to take a first order derivative for this just like we did for EOQ-- the only thing that's going to change is, I have this down to this term. And if I clean this up a little bit-- because you see that EOQ is kind of buried in here-- so it's just going to be EOQ / sqrt (1-D/P). So as we said before, if I look at this values that the production rate can have, as it's really, really fast, what's that going to do? That means this EPQ is going to approach the EOQ that we would have done, if I wasn't producing things as they were demanded. As the production rate gets slower, then this EPQ gets bigger and bigger compared to EOQ, because what this is saying is, as I produce slower, there's going to be a larger quantity of the product that I'm making where I won't incur any inventory holding costs. So a slower production rate will increase the EPQ, and it'll increase that because it's saying the inventory holding cost is getting lower.
