Week 8, Lesson 1 · Video 2

So let's talk about Base Stock Policy. Here are the assumptions we're going to make. This is mainly for your reference. And so, when we think about a Base Stock Policy, we think about the demand coming in and, the key hallmark here, is that we're going to order immediately for whatever was demanded. So if an order comes in for six, we place an order back for six right after that. If I sell four of something, I place an order for four. So, the order is immediate and for the same amount as was sold. It arrives after a certain amount of Lead Time. And so, whether it's the next day, next week, whatever that Lead Time is, and you can see for each order that was placed, it actually arrives a certain Lead Time Period later. What this means is, my Inventory On Hand is going to reflect this. So, my inventory on hand will decrease after that first order until it actually comes in, after that Lead Time. However, since I'm placing the order immediately, my inventory position stays constant at this Base Stock Level, or S*. So remember, I hadn't a demand for this amount, but I placed an order for the exact same amount at the same time. So, whenever an order is placed, the Inventory On Hand goes down, but I placed the order for replenishment, and so, my Inventory Position goes right back up. So, what we're trying to figure out is this quantity, this S*. How much should I have in stock as my Base Stock? So again, it's a One-for-One order policy. The inventory position stays constant at that Base Stock Level. When is this used? Surprisingly, very often, because it's so simple. And so, this is used a lot in small retail stores. Think of a 7-Eleven, where you have franchises and they get replenished every day, late in the evening or early morning, they get replenished for that next day. And so, they might place an order for seven doughnuts and three other things, and they get replaced exactly what that is. So this one for one, or Base Stock Policy is actually pretty common. And the trick is determining this Base Stock, or this S*. And so, we want to set that S* so that it covers the potential Demand Over the Lead Time for a desired Level Of Service, or LOS, we'll call it. This is a common term you'll see a lot of. So, Level Of Service for here, for most Base Stock Policies, is defined as the probability of not stocking out. So, in other words, you want to make sure the probability that my expected Demand Over Lead Time, remember, that mu_DL expected Demand Over Lead Time, is less than or equal to that S* there we're determining. So, how is it done in practice, the Level Of Service? A lot of times it's a management decision. Management might say, I want my Level Of Service to be 95%. So, what does that mean? That 95% of the time I will not stock out. If I get replenished every day, that means I only want to stock out of this item one out of every 20 times. If I set it as a 90%, one out of every 20 days I will stock out. Another way to do that is using our old friend, the Critical Ratio. Because if I look at my demand, and I'm going to set some Base Stock, S*, then the amount that I'm covering, the amount of the probability distribution that I'm covering is this amount, which is the Critical Ratio. And so, I can determine that by my shortage in my excess cost. So, this is something we did similarly for the single period models. We can apply the same concept here, and this is just determined by a Level of Service. What is the probability that I don't want to stock out? So, what we do is we can determine whatever this Level Of Service is. Whether it's handed to you. They say 90%, 85%, whatever. Or I determine it: calculate it with a Shortage and an Excess Cost. At the end of the day, I'm going to be able to determine a k value. And the k, remember, is simply going to be, for the unit Normal distribution, the number of standard deviations above the mean that I need to go for that S*. So, at the end of the day, our S*, our Base Stock, is going to be equal to my expected demand over Lead Time plus the Safety Factor for the given Level Of Service, and this comes off of the standard unit Normal table, times the standard deviation of demand during Lead Time. So, I'm taking what I expect it to be and I'm adding a buffer. And this is sometimes called Safety Stock. And we'll talk a lot more about that in a few minutes. So, let's go with a very simple example. I've got a daily demand here. It's Normally distributed with 100 units demanded on average, with a standard deviation of 15, Lead Time is 2 days. If I have Excess Inventory, the cost is $5 per unit per day. If I'm short, then it's $25 per unit per day. So, how would I find this Base Stock Policy? First, I want to figure out my expected Demand Over Lead Time. And that's going to be 100 times 2. Because if this is my daily demand, if I expect 100 demanded each day, and I'm going over 2 days, therefore, 200 units over that time period. My standard deviation is going to be the standard deviation of the daily demand times square root of 2, so it'll be 21.2. Then I want to find out the Level Of Service. Since I have this excess in Shortage Cost, I can just take the ratio, gives my Critical Ratio. So, I need to cover 83.3% of the demand distribution. So, I can find my k from either the Normal tables or from a spreadsheet. Here's the spreadsheet function. And I just put in the k value here, or excuse me, the Critical Ratio value here, 0.833. And I get that my k is 0.967. So I'm going to take the expected Demand Over Lead Time, this 200, plus my Safety Factor, 0.967, times my standard deviation. And that gives me 220.5 or 221 units. So that is my S*. And what you've done is found the expected amount and you've added in a buffer. And that's your Safety Stock. Very easy to figure out. This is Base Stock Policy.
