Week 3 · Recitation: Regression in Excel · Video 2

Welcome to Linear Regression in Excel. My name is Connor Murkowski, and today we're going to be covering some special cases in regression while using Excel. In this lesson, we're going to be covering dummy variables, or sometimes known as binary variables, or even class variables. So what we're going to just jump right into an example. We're going to continue the "Water you paying for?" example. In this, you believe that population density affects water prices, but now you also believe that climate affects water prices. So you're going to gather some data on your population density and your climate and water prices. And you're going to perform a regression analysis to see if you're actually correct in that population density and climate affect water prices. So now we have our data over here. In our climate, you can see it's actually binary. It's either warm or cool, and there's no in between. So it's a classification variable or a dummy variable, and so what we're going to do is we're going to put that into Excel in order to perform a regression analysis on this. So we're going to go over to Excel now, and we're going to put this data in. So we're in Excel, and our data is here. You can't actually run a regression on this, because there's no numbers here. So we need to convert these dummy variables into actual dummy variables, so a binary variable. So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to enter a simple function. If warm, enter 1. If not warm, then enter 0. So we're going to predict whether something is warm. So we're going to say =if this =warm, then 1 else 0. We're going to close that. Oops. Make sure you do double quotation marks around that "warm" value. OK. So if warm, then 1. If cool, then 0. So you can see that every time it's cool, it is 0. And every time it's warm, it is 1. And that's what you want to see. Now you can then regress these values against your water price in US dollars. So I'm going to rename this column here, and I'm going to call it Climate Binary. And then over here, I'm actually going to copy over my population per square mile data. And I'll explain why I'm doing that here in a second. It's because using the population per square mile and the climate binary, they need to be next to each other when we perform the regression in Excel. So we're going to say [? equals ?] [INAUDIBLE], and we'll drag that all the way to the bottom. So now we have all of our data here just like we had over here, and we're going to perform our regression analysis on that. So we're going to go to our Data tab again. We're going to go to Data Analysis. We're going to go to our Regression tool. We're going to hit OK. And in this, we're going to now select different data. So we're going to go to our wide range. What are we trying to predict? We're trying to predict water price in US dollars, and we're going to predict that using-- we're going to use the climate binary and the population per square mile. Now this is why they had to be next to each other, because you can't say do two different arrays in this. It has to be one set of arrays, and they can be lined up next to each other. So we are going to select all of the climate and population data, and down here, we're going to make sure we have Labels checked. And then we're going to hit OK, and Excel will perform the regression for us. So in this, we have our summary output. And so we can start by looking at our r squares and adjusted r squares and our regression statistics. And once again, this tells us how much variation that our x values are predicting and our y value. So I can move down here to our f-test or our significance level of our f-test. And what this tells us is it's a comparison of how good our model is versus a model where they just use the mean of the y data sets, so the mean of the predicted data set. It's how much better our data set is. So we can say with a pretty good significance that our model is better than just using the mean. Now down here, we also have our coefficients for our different predictors, so we have our intercept coefficient. We have our coefficient for our climate binary variable and our coefficient for our population per square mile. So here, you can see that, in general, water is going to cost $0.77 when there is 0 population per square mile, and it's a cool climate. Now if we add to it, and we make it a warm climate, now it's going to add about $0.21 to the $0.77. So we can see that just with no population and in a warmer climate, we can see that water price will go up. Now down here, you can also see how much it will go up for each person you add per square mile. So if density goes up by one person per square mile, you can see that the overall cost of water will go up by about 1/10 of a cent. So over here, you can look at the p values, and you want to see if this is, indeed, not 0. And so you can say with a pretty good degree of certainty that the coefficient for intercept is not 0. Now here with the climate binary variable, you cannot say with a very large degree of certainty that this is, indeed, not 0, meaning that this predictor might not be the best predictor for this model. At the same time, you can also look at the p value for population per square mile, and you can see that is very significant. So you can say with a high degree of certainty that population density does, in fact, affect the price of water under this data. Now over here, you actually have prediction bounds for the means here, so you have your coefficients, and then you have the prediction bounds, the 95% prediction bounds for those, meaning that 95% of the time, with similar data, you would predict that this coefficient would fall somewhere between this range and this range. So we're going to go back to our slideshow and finish up. And so that's how you can do a dummy or a binary or class regression in Excel. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion. As always, thank you for listening.
