Week 8, Lesson 1 · Video 4

So let's talk about the Order-Point, Order-Quantity policy, or the (s,Q) Policy. As you would guess, the (s,Q) Policy has two parameters that we need to estimate. The first is s, which is the Reorder Point, and the second is Q, which is the Order Quantity. So how do I find the Q? Let's start working from the other way. Well, this Q, whatever I figure out, is going to determine what my level of Cycle Stock is because, remember, we expect whatever we order for Q, that's the amount of inventory we will need during normal Replenishment Cycle. So typically, we get this from the Economic Order Quantity and solve for Q*. Now, we'll see in future lectures that there might be other methods that might modify this a little bit, but generally, you use EOQ to find your Q. Find the Q*, just like you did for the last couple weeks. Now s is a little more complicated. So when I find this Reorder Point -- think about what we're trying to do here -- we're trying to find an amount of inventory that is sufficient to handle all of the Demand Over the Lead Time. So we base it on the expected Demand Over Lead Time, and that's the forecast. So whatever you forecasted you demand to be over that Lead Time -- that's what we expect to happen, but then we want to add in a little bit. We want to add in the Safety, or Buffer, Stock because we know the demand is variable. So you want to add in some buffer, and how much you add in is really the focus of how much you don't want to stockout. So we're going to end up with this equation-- which should be starting to look very familiar to you -- where my Reorder Point, little s, is going to be equal to the forecasted mean demand over Lead Time, or the expected Demand Over my Lead Time Period, plus the Safety Stock. And Safety Stock is simply this k, the Safety Stock factor, times sigma(DL). Now, so far we've been treating sigma(DL) as the standard deviation of the Demand Over Lead Time. In fact, it is actually going to be the standard deviation of the error of the forecast over the Lead Time, or the root mean square error, thinking back to our forecasting lectures. Why is that so? Well, remember that my expected demand is a forecast. So if my forecast is perfect, there is no variation in the error -- there is no error. Then, I will not have any variation in what my demand will be because the variation in the demand that I experience is how far it's off the forecasted value. Now, suppose I don't have the root mean square error of the forecast. Well in that case, you can simply use the standard deviation of the Demand Over Lead Time-- look at that historically -- because, in that case, we would be making the assumption that the expected demand was the forecasted demand. But if you have the root mean square error of the forecast, that is what you should use because that is the standard deviation, or the variance, that you are going to see in that expected Demand Over Lead Time. OK, so we know how to find this mu(DL), this forecasted mean over demand. The real question is -- how do I find the Safety Stock? And the real challenge there is finding this k. There are many different ways you can find this k, or this Safety Factor. So one common approach is to just assume a rule of thumb. And it might be I want to always have two months of supply, or four weeks of supply, or two days of supply for all my products. So whatever the demand is of that item, you multiply and find out what two months would be, or one month, whatever, and that's how much you stock. So it's easy to use. It's widely used in less sophisticated situations; it's a rule of thumb approach. The next approach that you see is the Customer Service Approach. And this is very common as well. And for here, instead of trying to set one rule across all the items, like a rule of thumb two months of supply, I'm going to set a service standard. And it might be, for example, I want to make sure I stockout no more than 5% of the time. Or I want to make sure that my Item Fill Rate is at least 95%. So you establish some performance bar that your inventory has to meet. Now when you do this, you're essentially setting things up, and you're finding out how much inventory you need to do to be able to meet that Level of Service. The third approach that we're going to talk about is cost minimization. And for this, we use our old friend, the Total Relevant Cost equation, and I'm going to take a first order condition to minimize the Total Cost, and what I need to add here is the cost of holding the extra Safety Stock, and make a trade off between that and the Shortage Costs. So there's three different ways that we're going to talk about, we're actually going to focus in on the Customer Service Approach and the Cost Minimization Approach because these are most commonly used in large organizations and more sophisticated organizations. So let's go into those. But regardless of what approach you do, it's going to fit into my Total Cost equation. Remember, the Total Cost Equation has four terms here. The first is the Purchase Cost. The second is the Ordering Cost. Then the third is the Holding Cost and your two elements here now-- the Q/2 is the Cycle Stock, and this k times sigma(DL) is a Safety Stock. So both types of inventory count, and they get driven by very different factors. Now this fourth term, this is just a holding term for the cost of the stockout for the Shortage Cost. This will take many different forms. This is just a placeholder right now because when we try to minimize the Total Cost, for example, I'm making a trade-off between the Safety Stock and the Cost of Shortage. So in this class, we're going to focus in on two performance metrics and two stockout cost metrics. We're going to go into Cycle Service Level, Item Fill Rate, and we're going to look at if I have the Cost per Stockout Event, and also if I have a Cost per Item Short. There are other forms that we can use here. These are the most common, and what we're going to do in the next number of videos is go through each of these in turn and work the common example, so you understand the mechanics of it. So let's get started.
