Week 7, Lesson 1 · Video 5

Now let's solve the same problem, but we're going to assume the Poisson distribution, which is another discrete theoretical distribution that is commonly used. So let's say the last 180 days of sales-- or of demand, rather, for the rotisserie chickens looks something like this. So notice that the values are much lower-- between 0 and 5. And if I put this into a histogram, the blue is what I observed with the empirical distribution. You'll see that they're all positive, and there can be some zero days, and it kind of follows-- I'm going just going to draw this kind of long right tail. Now, what I show in the red is what's known as the Poisson, or the theoretical distribution, and you can see here it kind of matches. So you look at this, and if you notice it, it's all discrete values, low values, and there's a longer right tail. That's kind of a indicator it might be a Poisson. Poisson might be a good distribution to model your demand. Now, the notation is going to be it's distributed with capital P, or Poisson, and it has one parameter, lambda. Lambda is the mean, and it's also the variance. So it's a very useful distribution, and so what I'm showing in this chart is the number of chickens demanded, the observed probability, which is the empirical, and that's simply the number of days that value was demanded divided by 180, because of 180 days. And then I plug in the PMF and the CDF for the probability and the theoretical cumulative probability following the Poisson distribution, and we'll explain more about that in the next slide. So Poisson is very commonly used in inventory, mainly for slow moving items, because it's really good for low value things and where it's important that you have an integer value. Now, the parameter, like I said, is lambda, and that's equal to the mean as well as the variance. So let's refresh yourself on Poisson, because hopefully you've seen it before if you've taken SC0x. And so the PMF, or the probability mass function, looks like this. And so let me just highlight it. For all integer values or non-negative integer values-- 0, 1, 2, so forth-- it's going to be equal to e, which is Euler's number. It's a constant 2.718 and so forth. e to the negative lambda, which is the parameter, times lambda raised to the x divided by x factorial. Now, x factorial-- remember that just means like 5 factorial is 5 times 4 times 3 times 2 times 1, or 120. And 0 factorial, remember, is defined as being equal to 1. So this is the PMF. So this is the probability that the random variable x, following the Poisson distribution, is equal to x. So if I plug some numbers in-- so let's say lambda is 2. So I'm saying the random variable x is distributed following the Poisson distribution 2. Then the probability that x takes the value 0 is going to be equal to that PMF where I plug in for x the value 0, and it gives me 0.135. Do the same thing for x equals 1, x equals 2, x equals 3. You can see it gives you the same values that are just fleshing out this table. Now, if I want to do the CDF, or the cumulative density function, it's a slightly different form, and I have it down there. It's e to the negative lambda times the sum from i equals 0 to x of lambda to the i-th over i factorial. So if I just plug in for probability that x is less than or equal to 0, which is the same thing as saying the probability of x equals 0, since it can't be negative and it can't be fractional, then it's going to be e to the negative 2, because that's the lambda-- that's this term outside the summation-- times lambda to the 0 over 0 factorial, which is 1 over 1. So that is 0.135, which is what I have here-- 13.5%. Plugging in one, it's simply going to be that e to the negative lambda-- 0.135 times 1 for 1 plus 2 over 1 because lambda to the 2-- lambda to the 1 divided by 1 is 2. And you can just plug this in, and keep going down, and that's how we get all of these values here in the cumulative probability table. So you could do it using this table, but nice thing about spreadsheets is they have a function. And so you have two functions in your spreadsheets. The first one for Poisson tells you the exact value. This is the PMF. That's the first one, and it's all that last parameter 0. It means it's a PMF. And this is a PDF, the second one, because you're saying it's to the cumulative. So I can calculate both the PMF and the CDF for the Poisson distribution in the spreadsheets. It's a lot easier than actually plugging in the functional form. Quick aside about Poisson before we solve the problem at hand with the chickens-- if I have this lambda value-- and here I'm going to show different values of what the distribution looks like for different values of lambda. So for lambda equals 0.75, the blue is what the distribution looks like. As that lambda gets bigger, notice that it changes shape, and it becomes less right tail. It becomes almost symmetric. And so this is one of the things you should notice about the Poisson. As lambda increases, it becomes more symmetric around the mean. That means it's even on both sides, and it's a bell shaped. The values are always going to be integers greater than or equal to 0, but the lambda itself doesn't have to be an integer. I could have a distribution for Poisson where lambda is 3.17 or 1.86. It doesn't matter, but all the values it generates will be integers. The values can never be negative. That's a very nice thing to have. As we'll see when we use the normal distribution, one of the problems can be, if your values are low, you might inadvertently include some negative values of probability. And so you have to watch out for that. And it's a very good distribution for small values that have a long right tail. So typically you're going to use it for when you have a lower lambda value where you have this right tail coming out. That's when you typically use Poisson. All right, let's solve the problem. So I want to know. How many chickens do I need to make sure I stock out no more than 10% of the time? I have to use the table here. So the probability of stocking out less than 10% means I have to cover 90%, so I can use the cumulative probability table to find where that happens. First time it crosses 90 is here, so that means I need four chickens. Now, unfortunately, there's not an inverse function in spreadsheets where you can put in-- show me the x where the probability equals something, but what you can do is use trial and error in the spreadsheet or use Goal Seek. And so you can find it on the spreadsheet, but it's a little harder. We'll see in the normal distribution spreadsheets are a little easier to use, but Poisson-- it's a little harder. But what if you want to find out for second question? I want to find the probability of stocking out if three chickens are roasted. So I could do this-- let me just erase this-- easily on the chart itself. So for three chickens, 85.7. So 1 minus 0.857 is 0.143. So that's easy, or I can go in the spreadsheets, and I can say, OK, what's 1 minus-- and all I'm doing is putting the PMF-- or, I'm sorry, the CDF of Poisson for 3. When x equals 3, lambda is 2, and that 1 means it's the PMF, and it gives 0.143. So I can use a spreadsheet there to find the probability of stocking out. Now let me get the last one, and the expected units are always a little harder to do. So when demand is less than equal to 3, I know I will sell what is demanded. When demand is greater than that, I'll sell exactly 3. So the probability, or the expected value, of the units sold-- I have to divide it in half. First for when the demand is less than what I have on hand-- or less than or equal to-- and then the second half is when I have demand exceeds. And you can see what I'm doing here for the case where the demand exceeds what I have. All I'm going to do is multiply what I have on hand, 3, times the sum of those probabilities. So the first half is just the expectations like we've always been doing them. It goes all the way to here. The probability of 0 sales times 0 plus-- for 1, it's going to be 1 times 0.271. Sum that all up to 3, and then the second term I'm simply going to have the units I can sell, 3, times the probability of stocking out. That's the probability that I have demand greater than 3, which we already figured out up here. Adding those together, it's 1.78 chickens per day. For expected short, it's the same kind of thing that we did before. Let me clean this up a little bit. If I sell-- have demand is less than or equal to 3, my unit short will be 0. Beyond that, it's going to be 1, whatever the demand is, minus what I have on hand, 3. So if demand is 4, it's going to be 4 minus 3 times 9%, 0.09. If demand is 5, it's 5 minus 3 times 0.036, and so forth. You sum all of those up, and you get 0.22 chickens per day. So we know that the expected sold plus the expected short adds up to the expected demand. It's kind of like a little check at the end. So we used the Poisson distribution here. It makes sense because it's such low values, and we had that right tail. And again, it's a common distribution you'll use for slow moving items for inventory.
