Week 2, Lesson 1 · Video 3: Second Forecasting Truism

So let's look at our second forecasting truism and that's that aggregated forecasts are more accurate then disaggregated forecasts. And this makes sense. But when we talk about aggregation, we talk about aggregating the forecast by SKU. Look at the forecast for one type of product. Or time. Look for things or certain period of time. A week, a month, a year. Or a location. And so how I aggregate these things together might improve my forecast accuracy. So to look at this, we're going to use a metric, and we're going to call it Coefficient of Variation is a very good metric to look at. It's simply defined as the standard deviation over the mean. Right? So it's getting a sense of the spread of the distribution divided by the central tendency, the mean or the average. It's a relative measure of volatility or uncertainty in any kind of distribution. And this CV, obviously if you look at the definition here, it can't be negative. Right? It can't really be zero. That would be kind of very strange. So generally, it's a positive number. And a higher CV indicates higher volatility. If you approach a 0.5 or approach 1, that means your standard deviation is as big is your average. That gets very volatile. So if I have two products here, the red product and the blue product-- let me just erase these things. There we go. You can see if I had to forecast one of these, if I got to pick which product I want to forecast, the blue or the red, I think we would all pick the blue. Because it's probably going to be right around 100. Right? That blue line. If this is the daily demand on the vertical axis, and you can see the time along the horizontal. Obviously, not much volatility there, as opposed to the red one, which has its swings between being almost a zero up to 200 units. So you can see the CV here, if I look at the red, the mean is 100, and the standard deviation is 45 units. Then the coefficient of variation is simply 45, overall 100, or 0.45. And the blue, the mean is the same. So they have the same average, but the standard deviation is only one. So it's CV, its coefficient of variation is 0.01. So as you would guess the higher the CV, the harder it is to forecast. Or the less accurate your forecast is going to be, because there's that much more volatility. So it's a good metric. And we're going to use CV as a proxy to see if this aggregation actually improves the accuracy of forecasts. So let's go back to our sandwich shop. And of course our sandwich shop, in addition to selling sandwiches, sells a lot of coffee. And the coffees always have lids. So here I've got three types of coffees, and they all have their own paper cups. The large ones over here have a demand of cups per day, about 80. It's normally distributed, with a standard deviation of 30. Right? That's what this is. So the CV, you can do the math, is 0.38. For the mediums, I give you the average demand. You sell a lot more of these- 450 a day. Standard deviation of 210, and your CV is 0.47. And then a small ones sell about 250. And you can see the standard deviation of 110, and the CV of 0.44. So I've got these three cups. And you assume each one has its own lid that's unique to it. Let me just draw the lids here. There we go. And so what I have on the bottom of the chart is the distribution over a-- let's see what is that-- about a year time frame. And so you see the high volatility ones, the mediums are the biggest sellers, have the highest volatility than the smalls. And then the larges are pretty stable, but we don't sell as many of those. So you can look at the volatility here, but then the question comes: What if I create a common lid? So instead of having a lid for each one of them, of the cups that's unique, I have one that fits all of them. So it's only one lid that fits for all three. What will that do? Well I can look at now the distribution of that common lid. And it's going to be a combination of all three of those distributions. So if I look at the mean, or the expected value, that's just going to be the sum of the expected value of each of the three cups, or 780. And the standard deviation of demand for that common lid is going to be the square root of the sum of the variances. So check my math. But it should be correct. So you'll get that the lids, the common lids are distributed with an average, or expectation, of 780 units per day, with a standard deviation of 239 And look what happens to my CV. It goes down to 0.31. It's lower than any of the individual ones. Why is that? And so here's what you see for the distribution of the common lids. And what's happening here is something known as risk pooling. I'm reducing the amount of total variability because we assume that if some of the volatility of the large are offset by some of the swings in the demand in the small, and in the medium. And so these peaks and valleys of the individual ones offset each other. And that's the idea here with risk pooling. It's also a great example, a very, very simple example that you see every day and don't think about of modularity, or parts commonality. This is something that's really a major issue for any manufactured product. Engineers will try to design a product uniquely. And so you might have a product where the bolts, or some component is unique to that, but it could be common across many different items. So the idea of having common parts, or common components across different products, reduces the variability of that common product, and makes it easier to forecast. It does a lot of other things. We'll talk when we talk about inventory. But you can think about it reducing the variability. And when you reduce the variability, good things happen. Right? It's easier to forecast, and actually turns out you need less Safety Stock inventory. And we'll talk about that later down the road. But the big point I want to get here is if I aggregate by SKUs, by doing again, that modularity or common parts, then I will reduce my variability. And that's reduced by seeing the coefficient of variation. But I could also aggregate by time. So here I've got my daily demand for that common lid. And we said, remember its average was 780 units per day, standard deviation of 239, and I had a coefficient of variation of 0.31. But instead of daily demand, because maybe I don't need daily demand. What about weekly demand? So if I aggregate by week, and what I did is I took the data, and saw how the demand differed week to week. And you can see that the coefficient of variation goes down. And then if I say, well forget week, I can do with his monthly. Maybe I want monthly forecast. And you can see the coefficient of variation goes down even further to 0.06. Now you might say well, yeah it goes down relatively, but look at it, it's 21,000 units here, and here it's only 6,000 or 5458, so it's a higher absolute amount. But what we care about is the volatility. The relative volatility. So by aggregating from daily to weekly to monthly, my forecast accuracy will go up. Your longer range forecasts will always be more accurate. Because you again, you're balancing out, and you're smoothing out over a longer period of time. In practice though you need to make sure that the time bucket that you use, whether it's your daily, weekly, or monthly, we need to make sure that it matches what your situation is. I remember doing a project several years ago, where a manufacturer was dealing with a retailer. And the manufacturer dealt on weekly time buckets, and the retailer dealt in monthly. And so they had to divide their product. And so what they would say, they take their demand from the retailer and they divide it by 4. So they would assume that there was equal distribution in each of the weeks. And so you need to make sure that your time buckets match with your different members of your supply chain. But you want to make your forecasting match that. So if I can only order lids once a month perhaps. Then why do I want to manage it with a daily demand. Maybe I'm OK with managing it at a monthly level. So you want to make it match the situation. We'll talk more about that later on. The third area I want to talk about for aggregation though, is by location. And so what we have here, let's suppose we have three sandwich shops now. And we said that the weekly demand for that common lid, remember this hasn't changed, CV of 0.12-- again this is the weekly demand, so it's not daily anymore. I kept it weekly. It doesn't really matter. The same effect would happen if I do daily or monthly. And so there are my three stores. And so if I wanted to manage the lids separately at each, you would see the CV would be 0.12. But if I combined to this central, this common Distribution Center here, then my weekly demand would actually drop. Or the CV would drop to 0.07. Why? Well it's the same thing as aggregating over SKUs, or aggregated over time. What I'm doing now is I'm combining the variability of these three distinct stores, and they're going to offset each other. Because I'm assuming that they're independent. So the coefficient of variation is reduced as we aggregate SKUs over time, over SKUs, or over locations. And we can capture this mathematically. If we assume that each of the individual stores or it could be to the individual SKUs or each of the individual weeks. If they have the same distribution, that's the CV of the individual, whether it's a SKU, a time, or a location. Then if I aggregate them, if I aggregate n of them, then we can see that the mean increases what, by a factor of n. So if I go from one to two, and this two, my mean doubles. If I go from one to three, my mean triples. Because it's the sum of all three of them. The standard deviation though increases at a slower rate. It increases at square root of n. Because it's the sum of the variances. So therefore, it's a square root of n for the standard deviation. So by looking at that, and just cleaning it up, carry through the square root of n, we get this great relationship. That if I have an aggregated CV, it's going to be equal to the individual coefficient of variations of each of the individual locations, or SKUs, or times divided by the square root of n, where n is the number of ones that I'm aggregating.
