Week 2, Lesson 1 · Video 2: First Forecasting Truism

OK, we're going to talk about three forecasting truisms. And a truism is something that's so self-evident and so obvious it's too obvious to even mention. But it's worth mentioning. So the first truism we're going to go into is that forecasts are always wrong. And you'll always see this whenever someone talks about forecasting. It's the first thing they say. Forecasting is especially difficult, especially when you talk about the future, is a common quote. And so why are forecasts always wrong? Well, we can think of demand as essentially a continuous variable. And think back so when you learned all about continuous versus discrete variables. If I have some distribution with a probability of 90, then the probability that I will pick something up and it'll have a value of 89.62397 is essentially zero. So the ability to pick a point out of a continuous distribution is very hard. It almost approaches zero. So the idea of having a point forecast, be correct, it's very random. It never happens. So yes, forecasts are always wrong. The other thing to think about is it every estimate has an error band. So a forecast is just an estimate. And what you're doing with this estimate, you're making with a different level of confidence or degree of confidence. So that's that error band that you think-- it's 89 point whatever plus or minus 2. And so you have an idea of what your band is. Also, forecasts are highly disaggregated. Typically in supply chains, you don't need to just forecast, say, the number of blue blazers that will be sold across the country. You need to know the number of blue blazers that are going to be sold in Boston, and not just in Boston, but at this store, and not just blue blazers at this store, but on this date or this week of this size. So you have this highly disaggregated level of forecast. Usually it's a SKU, location, time combination forecast. And as we'll see, as you get more and more disaggregated, it gets harder and harder to forecast, leading to your forecast always be wrong. Also, things always happen. Things change. So the idea that a forecast would always be correct just doesn't make sense anyway. So that's the truism. So what do you do about it? And we'll talk more about this as we go through the different lectures. But essentially, the big point is, don't focus, don't fixate on the point value of a forecast. Think about it as a guide, as a directional guide. And you want to try to use range forecasts. You want to get some kind of estimate not just of what you think the exact point will be, but what a range of that will be. And a good way to do that is to capture the error of your forecast, because that will naturally give you a range. As you capture this over time, you'll be able to say, well, my forecast is usually correct plus or minus 15%. So as you get this error forecast, you can use that for your future forecasting. And specifically, we'll see in later lectures, you'll use that error of the forecast to help set up your safety stock or your buffer capacity for inventory. So we'll talk more about this. But the first truism is that forecasts are always wrong. And it's true. It's a cliche. But it's not that planning and forecasting is a futile activity, it helps you set a potential planning target.
