Week 2, Lesson 2 · Video 3: Cumulative and Naïve forecasts

So now we're going to develop some time series models. And the two models we're going to do first, are the cumulative and naive forecasts. We'll explain why in a second. So developing any kind of time series models-- let's understand where we're going to use these. And for supply chain, the predominant use of series analysis is for forecasting the product demand of a mature product at the SKU level over a short time horizon, whether that's weeks, months, quarters, a year, where the demand of items is independent. Critical pieces here are it's mature. That means I have history. I have something I can use. It's at the SKU level. So that means it's very disaggregated. It's a short time horizon. So I'm not looking at a very long period of analysis. And the demand for items is independent, which means that I can model them separately. I don't need to understand the demand of another product that is a complement or a substitute. Later on, we will loosen some of these assumptions for other types of forecasting. For example, new products-- you don't have history for a new product launch. You might want to look at a whole series of items. You might want to look for a very long time horizon. I might be looking at 5, 10 years out. So as these things change, your model will change. But for right now, we're going to stay with the traditional time series model looking at mature product, SKU level, short time horizon, with independent products. So we're going to be using our four main trends here-- level, trend, seasonality, and error, our four patterns. OK, so what's the procedure? Straightforward. First, you pick a model for the demand pattern over time. You estimate and calibrate the parameters for the model. You use those parameters to predict or estimate the future. And then the critical step, step four, which is often ignored in many companies, is to review the model performance and adjust the parameters and model accordingly. These forecasts are living, so you should always check and make sure the parameters still make sense. OK, so we're going to develop two models, like I said, the cumulative and the naive model. And where they differ, they differ on a basic assumption. And this basic assumption is how important is the history, how much do you value the historical data. And there's two extreme assumptions. One is I treat them all very importantly. And the other is, they're not that important, they're not important at all. And so let's start with the first one. This is the cumulative forecast. So in each of these cases, I'm looking at a level demand. So you can also call this a stationary demand. So we assume the only pattern here is a level. And so the demand for period t, xt, is going to be equal to the level, a, plus some error term, some randomness. It's going up and down. And we assume that random term is identically and independently distributed with a mean of 0 and some variance. Now, why do we assume that the mean is zero? Well, what if it wasn't? What if I said the mean of the error was 10? Well, that means I'm just biased 10. I'm always going to be positively biased. So the mean of your errors should always be zero, because if not, I'm biased either positively or negatively. Let me just clean that up. So this is our model. And why it's called a cumulative model is because what our forecasting model's going to be, it's going to be saying that x hat-- and x hat is the forecast of demand made at time t-- for time t plus 1. Now, to generalize this, I have it down here. It's x hat t comma t plus tau. And that simply is the forecast made at the end of period t for the demand in period t plus tau, where tau is one, two, three, four, whatever time periods in the future. So this forecasting model right here is for the next period. We'll do a lot of these analysis for next period model. So I'm sitting in today forecasting for tomorrow. I'm sitting in this month forecasting for next month. And that's simply going to be for the cumulative model the sum of all the demands divided by the number of periods. So it's going to find the mean or the average. So I'm saying that all history matters equally. Makes sense. Now let's go to the other extreme. Let's say history doesn't matter at all. This is known as the naive forecast. And so what we assume here is that the most recent observation dictates the next. This is sometimes called the random walk or last is next. So we have the same kind of level forecast, but what we're saying is, the underlying model is, my demand in period t is going to be equal to my demand that actually happened yesterday in t minus 1, plus some error term, some randomness. So the only thing that's going to change is some of that random term. So again, my error term is distributed with a mean of 0 and some variance. And so my forecasting model is much simpler. The forecast of demand for sitting in today for tomorrow, t plus 1, is equal to the demand today. So I'm assuming that what happens tomorrow is what happened today. That's my forecast. Now, I know it won't be exactly, because I've got that error term that's going to put some noise around it. But the difference in the forecasting models, or the cumulative model, assumes it's going to be the average of everything I've seen so far. I'm creating all the history equally. Versus the naive model, all that matters is yesterday. What happened last period, that's what I think is going to happen next period. So let's see what these look like. So here's some data we have. And in this first column here in the table, it's just the time period from 1 to 10. xt is the demand at that period, t. So in period four, we had 96 units actually demanded. And over to the right, I have the chart that's showing where that happens. So what would be my forecast if I'm sitting here at t and I want to predict the demand in the next period? So that would be x hat 10 comma 11, because tau in this case would be 1. So this is a next period forecast. So what would it be? Well, for the naive, it's going to be what actually happened this most recent period. So what happened in period 10? Well, 96. So that's my forecast for the next period. For the cumulative, it's a little more complicated, a little more intensive. I go and I sum the average. And if I sum these up-- and you can check my math-- the sum here is going to be equal to 995. Divide that by 10, 10 observations, and you get 99.5. So this is my cumulative forecast. So this is very simple math. But if I want to look instead of doing just for that period, suppose I wanted to create a series of next period forecasts. So let's see what it would look like if I was in period one and I didn't know anything else that was happening and I'm making my forecast for period two. Then in period two, for period three. And in the period three, for period four. What would that look like? Well, that's what this chart is. So again, the first column is just the time period. The xt column is just the demand in time period t. The third column in green is the cumulative forecast at that time for the next period. And then the red, the fourth column, is the same thing for the naive forecast. So let's look at period 10. So in period 10, my actual demand was 96. And my forecast in period 10 for period 11 under cumulative is 99.5. My naive forecast, x hat 10 in period 10 for period 11, is 96. And that's in that row at the bottom. So I can chart these as well. And this is the same thing. This is the actual demand. I just drew a line on it so it would be easier to see. And here's the naive forecast. And this is, again, the next period. So this is the forecast made at the end of each period for the next period. And it's almost like you have double vision, because all it did is what? Shifted by one. It just shifted to the right by one, because it's a naive forecast. It's saying whatever happened yesterday, yeah that's what's going to happen tomorrow. Now let's look at the cumulative. This is in the green. And you can see it evens out, because as I add more information in, it takes a bigger swing to move that, because I'm taking the average at each of these points. Now, the only thing that you might be puzzled at is what did I do here. And for the first period, just for simplicity, I assumed that the forecast for each were the actual, just to get it started. We'll talk more about how you initialize forecasts. But for right now, just assume I made an assumption of what it was. But looking at this chart here at the bottom, you see some big things. And this is kind of the crux of a lot of forecasting trade-offs. You look at the difference between the red or the naive forecast and the green or the cumulative forecast, and you can see that the cumulative forecast, the green one, is very calm. It's going to even things out. While the naive one is very volatile, very nervous, because it's going to reflect any change in the underlying demand. And so this trade off between calm and nervousness will be common across all the forecasting that we do. And you might say, well, obviously the calm one is better. But you have to look at the downside for that. Naive models are much more responsive to a change then the cumulative model. The cumulative model will always be slower to respond to any changes. And that's a key feature. So this trade off between the cumulative using all the data that you have, all the history, and the naive forecast, only using the most recent, is at the core, the most basic trade off in forecasting. And we'll see this in more refined formats later. But at the core of it, this is what it's getting at. How much information do I want to use?
