Week 9, Lesson 2 · Video 6

Next we want to talk about mode selection, and as you'll see, this is very, very similar to route selection, what we did for shipping shoes from Shenzhen. It's only a little different in that there's criteria for selecting between modes. You have some feasible choices you have to consider. For example, if I'm moving things over an ocean, if I'm going global, it's either going to be air or it's going to be ocean. You can't drive a truck across the Atlantic or the Pacific. You just can't do it. So in some cases, the geography will limit your options. It makes choices a little easier. And so for surface-- those are things that stay on the ground-- I have the most range of options-- trucking, and usually I have different types of trucking: full truckload, moving direct, less than truckload, with smaller shipments moving through a hub and spoke, or parcel, really small shipments. I can also go with rail versus intermodal. Remember, intermodal is where you have a truck that's raised to a ramp, and then a railroad will take that container to a final destination, and then a truck will take it to its final destination. So you go from a ramp or a port to port right there, and that's the intermodal move. And then barge. You might go on a river. So you have the most options in surface, but you also could be restricted by speed. If you need to move something 500 miles or more a day, you're going to go by air. You can't move it any other way faster. That limits you as well. Your geography limits you for feasible choices, the required speed that you need, and also the shipment size. You're not going to have very high weight or high cube items moved by air because it's very expensive. Similarly, if I'm moving, say, an airplane wing that's being shipped for assembly, I'm not going to ship that by air. I'm going to go by rail or barge because those things, one, are really low cost, but they have the capability of handling a very large, bulky, oversized item. There are other restrictions as well-- nuclear or hazardous materials. It's called hazmat. We did a project looking at lithium batteries, and lithium batteries are restricted in how they can be moved. All these things limit the type of choices you have between modes. And you also have to look at the product characteristics. These limit the feasible choices, but once you're within the feasible choices that you have, when you have what you can select between, the trade-offs are the same as what you did for route selection. You're going to look at the cost, the time, both the average or the mean, and the variability, and the capacity, and any loss and damage. So the exact same criteria that you used for route selection you're going to use for mode choice. It's the same decision. So let's do an example. For this example, you're managing the transportation for a manufacturer, and one of the lanes, the origin destination pairs, that you're handling brings in raw materials from the supplier into your plant. It requires about 3,000 pounds a day. Standard deviation of demand is 750 pounds. It's normally distributed. The product value is about $20 a pound. I give you the Holding cost, a Cycle Service Level, and I tell you how many working days there are. I also tell you that you take ownership of the product at the origin. Why is that important? Well, now pipeline inventory matters because I will own that inventory during that move. If I said that you take ownership at the destination, then I wouldn't necessarily have to consider that pipeline inventory. I have two options. Truckload goes in three days on average with a standard deviation of half a day and it costs me about $1,800 per truckload, and the capacity fits in 40,000 pounds. My second option is intermodal. It takes a little longer time, six days on average, standard deviation of two days, so a little more variable in the transit time, costs a little bit less, $1,400 per container, and it has a capacity of 40,000 pounds. Why are these the same? Well, they both hit the road at some point. Remember, intermodal goes road to rail to road again, so that road is the limiting capacity. So they both have the same max capacity of 40,000 pounds. Now, your company's policy, let's say, is to only ship things when they weigh out. That means always ship a full truckload or a full container. This is not that uncommon, and so what you're doing here is I'm only going to ship when my truck is full. Following this policy, what mode should we select? What I'm doing here is just showing all the information that I've given you already-- the cost, the holding, figured out the cost of excess, the demand for daily and the standard deviation for the daily demand, and the k for the Cycle Service Level. I give you the characteristics for each of the modes, truckload and intermodal, the lead time, the standard deviation of that lead time, and the cost per load is my c_t, my ordering cost, because it is independent of how many pounds I ship as long as I stay below my 40,000 pounds. Now I want to find my expected demand over Lead Time and my standard deviation of demand over Lead Time. Since they have different standard deviations and means, then they will differ. So for truckload, I'm just going to use the equations here and come up that its expected demand over lead time is 9,000 pounds with a standard deviation of just under 2,000. Intermodal has twice the expected average demand over lead time. Makes sense because it's twice as slow. And it's going to have almost three times as much standard deviation of demand over lead time, so much more variable. So what do I use with this number? Well, first I look at the capacity. That will tell me the number of loads that I do a year, because simply the D annual demand, over the Q, the 40,000, tells me I'll do about 19 loads per year. And then I want to look at the costs. So I'm just plugging in to our total cost equation here, so let's see who wins. Annual ordering cost, it looks like intermodal will be cheaper. It looks like Cycle Stock, they'll be the same, no difference there. And it looks like for Safety Stock, though, truckload is much cheaper because we have that faster time and the variability is so much lower. So overall, truckload is a lower total cost option here, even though if I looked at just transportation, intermodal would be less expensive. So if I look at this, then I want to say, well, I would select truckload for this lane. Now, the reason why, going back here just a second to make sure I don't miss this, why was the annual ordering cost less for intermodal? Well, this is just the pure transportation cost. This is simply just going to be c_t, which is that transportation cost, times the number of loads that are going through a year. So since our cost per load is cheaper, that's why the ordering cost is cheaper. So the real thing here, I made a trade-off. My inventory costs are so much less when I use that faster mode, but maybe the policy doesn't make sense. Maybe I don't want to have that weigh out policy. Let's see what happens if I remove that. This is still the basic information. Nothing's changed, but the only thing that's going to change is my quantity. I'm going to find an EOQ now, square root of 2 times the ordering cost times the annual demand over the cost of excess. If I do this, I come out that the optimal order quantity for truckload is about 26,000 pounds and for intermodal, it's about 22,000 or 23,000 pounds. So look at what I'm doing here. Optimally, it says I should ship less than full truckloads. In other words, I should ship air. Sometimes people have a hard time understanding this, but it's more efficient sometimes to ship something faster if the value of the inventory is high enough than to shift full truckloads. So let's carry it out, find out who wins what for the ordering cost. You see that intermodal costs less for the ordering cost, which is really the transportation cost. Then for the Cycle Stock, same thing there. And you'll notice, because it's EOQ, those numbers are going to be equal to each other, the ordering cost and cycle stock within an option, because the EOQ is where those cross. Safety stock, though, truckload still blows it away, much cheaper than compared to intermodal. So I would still use truckload here, and shipping below that maximum capacity, in other words ignoring that only ship full trucks policy, saves me about $10,000 a year. $10,000 on a $160,000 base, that's not bad. That's some money. But the benefit of using this kind of trade-off, though, is now I can ask other questions. For example, when would intermodal ever make sense for this lane? What would have to change? This is the value of using these kind of models because now I can determine, maybe give some guidance on how I want to negotiate or how I want to change things and see what the impact would be. So for example, for intermodal to make sense, I'd have to do one of two or three things, and I just give three little examples here. Let's talk about them really quickly. First, I would have to lower the value of the item. Remember we said it's $20 a pound? If I lowered that, as I keep lowering that, what's going to happen? Well, the Safety Stock is going to become less and less important because the value of inventory becomes less important, and the threshold is when it becomes less than $0.73 a pound, at that point, intermodal makes more sense. This kind of makes sense. This is intuitive. Lower value products make sense on slower transportation. I could also look and say, well, what if I had better service? What if I changed from a mean of six days and standard deviation of two, to a mean of five days and a standard deviation of one? Well, if I did that, then that threshold of the value of the product would go up to $2.67 from $0.73 a pound. So faster service makes it more attractive for even slightly higher value products. And then finally, if I want to say, well, forget all that stuff. I just want to know, what would the rate have to be? What would the intermodal rate have to be such that it would make more sense? It would have to go all the way down to $263 from $1,400 to make it so that it would make sense. The beauty of using these mode choice models tied to the total logistics cost equation is now I can make informed decisions and I can say, where will I want to move things? If you change your service, maybe that will change my total cost and will help me lower my total cost.
