Week 4, Lesson 2 · Video 3

So we've derived the EOQ. And we know how to find that given input data. So now we want to do is find out how sensitive the EOQ solution is to changes or errors in our assumptions. So suppose we have a case where I used a wrong order quantity. My Q was wrong for whatever reason. Management decided to use something else. I made a mistake, whatever. So the question we want to ask is how much worse will my total relevant cost be by using this wrong Q-- this Q here-- compared to the one that actually should have been the Q*. And to do this, I just want to do a simple ratio. And my ratio is going to be my total relevant cost equation, which is up here. And I'm going to divide that by the optimal. And we've already shown how we got that. That's the optimal total relevant cost given the right Q*. So if I look at this ratio, and all I'm going to do is do some algebra to clean it up a little bit. I split this up and have the sqrt( 2*c_t*c_e*D) under each. And then I'm just going to clean up and cancel some things out. I'm going to multiply the first term by 1, sqrt(2) / sqrt(2), because I want to get this 2 on the bottom of each term. Let's clean up a little bit more until I get to something like this. And all I did was take the 1/2's out and kind of combine "like terms". But I want you to notice something-- make sure you can do the algebra-- but this term should look very familiar, as should this term. This is just Q*: sqrt(2*c_t*D / c_e). And same thing, this is the inverse of Q*. So a nice little term we get, a nice little relationship is that the ratio of the relevant costs for the wrong Q compared to the correct, optimal Q* is 1/2 times (Q*/Q + Q/Q*). So what this allows us to do is to very quickly determine how far off our error is. In other words, if we make a mistake in Q, how much of an impact will it have? And the nice answer is: not that much! So here's that same example we've been playing with where the annual demand is 2,000 units. The cost is $50 / unit. The holding cost is $12.50 / unit / year. And the order transaction cost is $500 / order. And remember, we found Q* = $400. And so all I did here was break out what the ordering costs are, the holding costs are, the total relevant costs, which is just the sum of the two. And then I did the ratio of the Q/Q*. And for this, since this is Q*, we're just saying it's 1. So we're just leaving it blank. And then what the relationship of the total relevant cost would be compared with the optimal would be. So looking at this, I did it for different values of Q. And so what happens if I ordered 50% less. So instead of ordering 400 at a time, I only order 200 at a time. So this means I would order more frequently, but not as much. So as you would expect, the ordering cost for that go way up, because I'm ordering twice as often. And the inventory holding costs go way down. But the combined amount is, of course, greater than optimal. You expect it to be greater, not equal to. And how much is that? Well, my Q is 50% smaller than my optimal. But that's only a 25% error. That's pretty amazing. Let's look at the other way. Suppose instead of ordering 400, I order 50% higher. I order 600. So now I'm ordering 50% more each time than I should. Now, what this means is because my total demand doesn't change, I'm going to be ordering less frequently. So my ordering cost is naturally going to go down. My holding costs is going to go up, because I'm ordering more. I'm keeping it there longer. My total combined cost, of course, is higher than the optimal cost. So even though my ordering size is 50% higher than the optimal. It's only 8.3% higher total relevant cost. That's amazing. So the whole idea-- I can be 50% off-- order 50% more than I should in my order size-- and I'm only 8% off in terms of my ratio of total relevant costs. Which begs the question now, is it better if my optimal quantity is something that doesn't make sense, as much as is it better to order a little more or order a little less? Which is the better error to make? Is it better to round up or round down? And well, if we look at this, and we just plot the ratio of Q/Q*. So that's this horizontal axis. It's just Q/Q*. And the ratio on the vertical axis is just the total relevant cost to the optimal total relevant cost. And then if I just do this for different values for Q and Q*, you can see that the relationship is not linear. And so here is-- if I order exactly the right amount-- if I order 50% more, that would be this point right here. And that's about-- what did we say? --8.3 percent more in total relevant cost. But if I do 50% the other way, that would be right here. And that's about what? 25% higher costs, and this is because if you think back to the EOQ relationship-- remember, you've got the inventory holding cost here. And your ordering cost kind of go like this. They're non-linear. Every time I go this way, I'm adding a linear cost for holding. So for holding cost, it doesn't matter whether up or down. It's going to be the same amount, because it's a linear function. But for the order cost, as I go down, it will decrease at a slower rate, than if I go up. Because I'm going up that steep part of the slope, where I have that big fixed cost. So that the answer is it's always better to round up a little bit than to round down, because the way that the non-linear order cost function is compared to the linear holding cost function. So what we saw is if I ordered the wrong Q, generally the EOQ is pretty stable. It's pretty stable. So I can round things up a little bit. And I'm still going to be in a pretty good solution. But what about if my demand changes? So what happens if I make a forecast, and I have my demand forecast-- I do this ahead of time-- and out of that forecast, I make an EOQ based on that? And that's this. So with the best information I have at the time, I forecast there's going to be 2,000 units out there. And I base my EOQ off that. But afterwards, at the end of year, I look back and say, you know what, the real demand was something totally different. The actual demand. And so the question is, if I go back and say, OK, if I know what the real demand is, and I calculated what the actual Q* should be, how much of a difference will it make? In other words, how much will the accuracy of my forecast impact EOQ? Well, let's take the same relationship we developed. This is the total relevant cost with a Q versus the Q*. And we showed how we got this relationship. And you can see that this is the same thing-- I'm just going to clean that up-- as Q*/Q. And Q/Q* here is the same thing as the forecast, which it turns out to be the incorrect Q, versus the actual optimal. So I can use this same relationship. And so what I want to figure out though is the relationship of the wrong D's, because I want to see how bad my forecast is way off. What's the effect? So Q*a / Q*f is simply this term over this term. Then if you look at it, everything cancels out, right? Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, except for the sqrt(Da) / sqrt(Df). So this term, I can just substitute in. And I end up with this relationship that the total relevant cost for the forecast versus the actual is 1/2 times the square root of the actual demand over the forecast demand plus the square root of the forecast demand over the actual demand. In other words, the error is not going to be as great. Because before we had it just Q*/Q, way up here. And now, it's the square root of that. So we know it's not going to have as much of an impact. But let's just go through the analysis. So this is the same example. We should be getting very comfortable with this. And we found out that if our actual-- because out of this, we found-- we predicted our forecasted demand was 2,000. If it actually was 2,000, then the ratio of actual demand versus forecast demand, of course, is 1. The Qa / Qf would be the same. And there'll be no difference in terms of the total relevant cost. However, let's suppose, I was 50% off. In other words, my demand was 50% higher. It went to 3,000. So my demand is 50% off. I was 50% higher than what I thought it was going to be. And then that means my Q*s are going to be off by about 22%. But my relevant cost is only going to be off by 2%. That's amazing. And so let's go the other way. Suppose for 2,000 I'm down 50%. So that means my actual demand, let's say, was 1,000, when I predicted it would be 2,000. And so it's actually 1,000. So my demand is half of what I thought it was going to be. So my Q* was actually going to be about that 3/4 what it should be. But the error is only going to be 6%. So what we've seen here is that the demand is pretty insensitive to that. So if I'm a little bit off, it's OK. This optimal solution still works. Now the critical thing here is I did this for demand forecast. But, you know, it doesn't really matter. Let me just clear this off, so you can see. Let's say I wanted the c_t changed. That I use a cost / order, but I was way off. So my forecasted cost / order was way different from what it actually was. Well, I have the same relationship, because everything else cancels here. And so this would really just be the c_t for the actual / the c_t of the forecast, and same thing here. So this same relationship holds for whether I have errors in my c_t, my c, my cost / unit, or my cost for holding inventory. So the net effect of this is that EOQ is very robust. It's a great solution. And it's known as a bathtub function, because you look how flat that is. It's very flat around the optimal. So this is nice because you come up with a solution, and if you're a little off in the forecast, a little off in how you implement the Q, it's OK. It's OK. You're still within a nice optimal region. The error won't be that great.
