Week 2 · Welcome to Week 2

Welcome to Week 2 Welcome to week two of SC1x. And what we're going to do in this week is we're going to dive into forecasting a little deeper. And the keyword for this week is time series. So we're going to use different time series techniques to do better forecasting. So this is our second week where we started talking about forecasting. So the first thing you want to realize when you look at demand, because that's really what we're going to be forecasting, the assumption here for time series is that they follow patterns. And there are certain patterns that are out there, and there are four patterns that we're going to talk about. The first one is level that we call a, and that just assumes that there's some level, there's some base level of demand. The next is known as trend, and this is a persistent change in demand over time. Now, it can be this is a positive trend. I could also have a negative trend. It doesn't matter. But it's persistent and it's linear. It's a linear trend. Then another pattern that we see is something called seasonality, and this is where you see a repeating pattern over time. And we call this-- we use the letter f for this. Different seasons. Now, we say seasonality, but that doesn't mean it's spring, summer, fall, winter. It could be, but it could be the months of the year. It could be days of the week have their different seasonality. It could be hours of the day that have different seasonality. So it's just over any time a repeating pattern, not necessarily a year. And then the last one we'll talking about is randomness. And we're going to call that-- it's really an error term, and we'll talk about that. But we know from our previous classes that's just where you have some kind of random nature here. So we have these four patterns, really these three patterns, that we're going to focus on. And what we're going to do is try to fit those to make some forecasts. And the way we're going to make a forecast, the way we're going to milk that, is we're going to say, my forecast for demand-- that's what the little hat is-- it means it's an estimate or a forecast sitting in time period t-- that's today-- making my forecast for t plus one-- that means tomorrow or the next period-- and we want to find what that is. And we're going to find that it's a function of all those different patterns-- the level, the trend, the seasonality, the error, and a bunch of other things. So we're going to use different functional forms, different models, and we're going to make different assumptions, and that will allow us to make forecasts. OK, so let's start with the simplest models. We'll talk more about these in class, but the simplest ones-- first one is known as a cumulative. And in a cumulative model, my forecast sitting in today for the next period, t plus 1-- t, t plus 1-- is equal to all the other demands where x is the random variable of demand that happens in that period, so xi is the demand that happened in period i. So for the cumulative, I'm going to sum those all up from i equals 1 to my current period, t, today. So I'm going all the way back to today, and I'm going to divide that by t. That should look very familiar. It's an average. That's all that the cumulative is doing-- saying everything in the past matters equally, and I'm going to take half of that. I'm going to take an average of that. Now, at the opposite extreme is the naive. And for naive, we say that the estimate sitting in today for the demand for the next period is going to be equal to what happened today. So this is just the opposite. This is what was last is next. What happens tomorrow is what happened today. So this uses no history. This uses all the history. So you can see these are kind of bookends at how you can do forecasting. And now there's one that's in the middle here that's called a moving average, which, as you would expect, makes a lot of sense. And what do we do here? Instead of going all the way back to the beginning of time, I go back m periods. How far back do I go? And I only go from equals t minus m up to t. So I might go back a moving average of four periods. I go back four, and I do the average of those four or average of 12. So moving average is kind of something in between these two extremes. Now, we're going to spend a lot of time on this last one known as exponential smoothing because this really makes it interesting because this does a lot of interesting stuff. So if I look at cumulative and naive forecasts, let's think about how it weights the older observations. So in this chart down here, I've got on the vertical axis the weight of each observation, and these are periods of time as I go back in time. This is today, t. t minus 1 is last period, two periods ago, three periods ago, four periods ago, and so forth. So if I look at the cumulative, it treats each of these the same. I'm just going to take an average of every observation. Now, if I look at the naive, if I do the naive, what does it do? It treats the one, the most recent, 100% and the rest of them at 0. So you can kind of see where they're different. But the question you might be asking is, why do I treat something like this cumulative one four periods ago with the same weight as yesterday? Shouldn't yesterday or last period count more? Isn't the more recent information more important to me? And that's what exponential smoothing does. It essentially says the weight is a function of how recent that data is. And so it uses this smoothing function-- and we'll talk about this in the lectures and derive it-- it's actually a geometric smoothing, but we call it exponential smoothing. And so what this ends up being is that my forecast sitting for today for the time period t plus-- I'm going to go tau-- that means tau periods in the future-- one, two, three-- so I could forecast tomorrow and tau would be one, or two, or three-- it's forecasting how far I want to go in the future. And we're saying that's going to be equal to the smoothing factor. We're going to call it alpha. And we're going to multiply that by my information that I have most recent, my most recent observation of demand, plus 1 minus that alpha times what? My most recent forecast, and that's x-hat t minus 1 of t. What did I forecast yesterday for today? What I'm doing here-- let me just highlight this because this is really critical-- I'm creating a balance between the new information and the old information. And so that's what exponential smoothing does that these other methods do not. It treats the age of the observation of the data differently. And so exponential smoothing is widely used. It's in all of the packages, so I want to make sure you understand this very well because you're able to not only weight it according to age, you're able to incorporate all these trends. For this week, we'll just start with level and trend. But in the next weeks, we'll start adding in seasonality and other things. All right, so this is what we're going to cover this week. It's a lot of stuff diving deep into forecasting. So watch the videos, do the recitations, work the quick questions of practice problems.
