Week 8, Lesson 2 · Video 2

So let's compare the different Inventory Performance metrics. Remember that whatever metric we're coming up with, all that we're doing is establishing the level of the Safety Stock by finding a k value. Remember for our Inventory System for the (s,Q), we have this s, which is the Reorder Point, is going to be equal to the expected Demand over Lead Time, plus some Safety Stock. And that's going to be this k, this Safety Factor, times the standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time. And this k is all that the different metrics are determining. And so if I wanted to find out what the expected cost of my Safety Stock is, I would just multiply this quantity times my Cost of Excess, which is dollars per item per year. So we came up with two different ways of coming up with metrics. One is service based, where I set some kind of Level Of Service, LOS, Level Of Service, and the k that corresponds to that is the one that I use. And we looked at two of those. The first was Cycle Service Level, which is the probability of not stocking out during my Replenishment Cycle. Simply, the probability that x, the demand, is less than or equal to that k. Then we also looked at Item Fill Rate, and this is the expected percent of demand that's met during each cycle. So what does that equal to? We defined this in the previous lesson as 1 minus the expected unit short, divided by the expected demand over that Replenishment Cycle. Remember Q is my Cycle Stock. So I expect Q to be the demand over my Replenishment Cycle. Not my Lead Time-- my Replenishment Cycle. So Expected Units Short divided by that, subtracting that from 1, gives me the expected number of items of demand that I will fill. Then we also looked at a series of metrics that are based off cost, where somehow we costed out and put a price on stocking out. And then we find the k that minimizes the Total Cost, trading off Inventory Holding Costs, along with those Stockout or Shortage Costs. And again, we looked at two. The first was cost for an event, a Stockout Event, and we introduced this B_1 term. And this B_1 is simply the cost per the event of stocking out, regardless of whether I stock up on 1 item, 2 items, 10 items-- it's one event. So the expected cost of that stockout event over the course of a year, is going to be equal to this B_1, cost of the event itself, times the probability that the demand exceeds what I have-- that's the probability of stocking out. And this last term, D over Q, is simply the number of Replenishment Cycles. And if my demand, my D, is in terms of a year, it's the number of Replenishment Cycles over the course of a year. Then we introduced Cost per Item Short, or CIS. And we reintroduce this c_s term, which is the cost of each item being short, and it's dollars per item per unit of time. And so if I look at the expected cost of item per short over the course of a year, it's going to be equal to the cost of each item that's short, times the expected number of unit short each Replenishment Cycle, times the number of Replenishment Cycles over the course of a year, if my demand is in terms of a year. So these are the four metrics we looked at. And let's compare them a little bit. So in this chart, on the horizontal axis, it goes from $0 to $70,000, and this is the expected cost of annual cost of Safety Stock. And here's the equation right down here, that we just talked about a second ago, it's just the Cost of Excess, c_e, times the Safety Factor k, times the standard deviation Demand over Lead Time. Now I took the c_e in the sigma, the standard deviation from the previous problem, where our expected demand over the course of year was 62,000 units, with the standard deviation of 8,000, the Cost of Excess was $15 per unit per year, our Q*-- our order quantity for our (s,Q) policy-- was 5,200 units. Lead Time was two weeks, we had two penalties, one we looked at for a $50,000 per Stockout Event, we looked at another where $45 per unit per year if you're short, and we calculated the expected demand and standard deviation of Demand Over Lead Time, and that's shown there. So that's the horizontal axis. And on the vertical axis, let's focus on the left hand axis first. So this side. And what I have here is the Level of Service, whether it's cost Cycle Service Level, or Item Fill Rate. And so what I want to show here are the two curves. So you can see this bottom curve is the cost, excuse me, is the Cycle Service Level. And then the green one that's above it is the Item Fill Rate. And obviously, as I add more Safety Stock, when I go from zero up to a high amount, both of the Performance Metrics improve. But notice they're improving non-linearly. So for the horizontal axis, I can point out where the different k values are, because all I'm doing here is multiplying the k times the Cost of Excess times the standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time. So at this point, when my Safety Stock is zero, we know that the k is equal to zero. And k is equal to one, in this case, is right a round here. So right here. This k is equal to one. And then for k is two, it's going to be right over here. And you can figure out going further, k equals three, and you can keep going further if you want. So all I did was multiply that by the particulars of the problem. But I want you to see a couple things. One is, notice that Item Fill Rate, for whatever level of Safety Stock I have, is always better than Cycle Service Level. So if I have say, let's pick $10,000 of Safety Stock, my Cycle Service Level's going to be about 66-67%. My Item Fill Rate is going to be about 93-94%. Why is that? We'll think about it this way: Cycle Service Level, I get dinged no matter how many I'm short any time during a Replenishment Cycle. So if I had 99% Item Fill Rate, but that means I'm short 1 every Replenishment Cycle, but only 1 out of 100 items that I order, then that means my Cycle Service Level would be zero, because I have a stockout event every single Replenishment Cycle. But I'm only short 1 out of say 100 every time. So the way they capture different things, Item Fill Rate, will always show better. It'll have a better performance, because Cycle Service Level, you get dinged a lot more for any shortage during the Replenishment Cycle. The other thing I want you to notice is that it gets increasingly harder to improve your Level of Service. So if I go, say from Cycle Service Level of 80%, which is right here, circling it, and if I go up and add $10,000 more of Safety Stocks, so I'm going from $20,000 to $30,000, my Cycle Service Level goes up 10%. But look if I add another $10,000. So instead of $30,000, I go to $40,000 of Safety Stock, I only pre-improve my Cycle Service Level from 90% to 96%. And then it gets even worse. If I look for another $10,000 worth of Safety Stock, from $40,000 to $50,000, I only improve from a Cycle Service Level of 96% to 98%. I only go up 2% in my Cycle Service Level for the same amount of investment. So that's one lesson that it's a non-linear function here, and it gets harder, and harder, to get better. Now I also plotted here on the other side of the axis, on this side, the right hand side, what we have here, is the total annual Cost of Shortage, whether it's Stockout Cost for an event, or a Cost per Item Short. And you can see that they are both non-linear as well. And you can see as I increase the amount of Safety Stock, the expected cost of those stockout costs goes down more and more. But I also want to show one other thing before we finish this video. And that to look at the Lead Time versus Safety Stock Costs. And here I have the same chart we had before. On the horizontal axis is the expected cost of that Safety Stock, which is just the c_e times k times sigma(DL). And on the vertical axis is the Cycle Service Level, but I've three curves here. And each curve represents a different Lead Time. The first one, the top line, is a one week, a two week, and a four week, then an eight week. And what you can see is, as I go from that top line, which is a very fast Replenishment Time, one week Lead Time, to this bottom line, this one down here, whereas eight weeks, you can see that for the same investment of Safety Stock, say $20,000, my Cycle Service Level drops from being roughly 90% or 88%, down to about 65%. In fact, if I have an eight week Lead Time, in order to get that 90% Cycle Service Level, I've got to invest almost $60,000 worth of Safety Stock. It gets harder and harder. So not only is the Cycle Service Level and all the other metrics non-linear with respect to k, the effective Lead Time also has an effect. And you can see the same thing for Item Fill Rate. It's the same thing down here with the horizontal axis. And then I do the same thing for Item Fill Rate, for whether it's a one week Lead Time, a two week Lead Time, a four week Lead Time, or an eight week Lead Time. So these are relationships between the length of time, the Lead Time you have, and the amount of Safety Stock. Remember the Safety Stock is just determined by that k value, that Safety Factor, that can be determined in many different ways, and we looked at four of them. We specifically looked at Cycle Service Level, Item Fill Rate, Cost per Stockout Event, and Cost per Item Short. So the important takeaway from this video is to notice the non-linear relationship between the metrics and the Safety Stock. And note that it's easy to go from being a bad situation to an OK situation. But it gets really hard and much more costly to go from a good situation to great situation. As you get up here in these very high levels, of whether it's Cycle Service Level, or Item Fill Rate, it costs a lot of money much further in Safety Stock to have a big improvement.
