Week 8, Lesson 1 · Video 5

OK, let's look at our first Level of Service metric--- Cycle Service Level. So when we say Cycle Service Level, all that we mean is the probability of not stocking out during a Replenishment Cycle. And so this is simply going to be equal to one minus the probability of stocking out. That's kind of like the definition. And so if X-- big X-- is the demand during Lead Time, then Cycle Service Level will be one minus the probability of stocking out. And we know that that's just probability of X being greater than s, where s is my Reorder Point, the amount that I want to order. And that's simply equal to the probability that X is less than or equal to s. And so the important thing I think you need to remember for Cycle Service Level is that it applies to the word 'cycle'. A lot of people use the term Service Level, and it means a lot of different things to different people. But when you say "Cycle Service Level", it explicitly means the probability of not stocking out during a Replenishment Cycle. So let's take a closer look at this. This is a normal distribution, and you can see our mean is 500 units, and our standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time is 50 units. And so if I want to have a Reorder Point s of about, it looks like 560 right here, then what does that mean? That means that my Safety Stock is going to be the quantity s minus the mean. And that is defined as k -- the Safety Factor -- times the standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time, or that Root Mean Square error of the forecast. That's simply saying that this area above the s is the probability that I will stock out during this Replenishment Cycle, and this-- and I'm highlighting on this side-- is the probability that I will not stock out. So the area under these curves. So obviously the probability that I do stock out plus the probability that I don't stock out has to equal one, because I do one or the other. I can look at this at the cumulative distribution as well, and so whatever my s was, I can see from here that the probability that I don't stock out is about, if I look across, about 90%. Looks like it intersects right there, which means my probability of stocking out is one minus that, or 10%. So hopefully this makes sense to you. Let's do an example, though. So we want to find the (s, Q) Policy using a Cycle Service Level. So the problem is you're managing the inventory for a production part. This is a part that is used in a manufacturing system. It's added to other things, and the annual demand is about 62,000 units per year. Standard deviation of demand, or this could be the Root Mean Square error of the forecast. It doesn't matter; treat it as the standard deviation of demand. And this is on an annual basis. The cost of the item is $100 per unit. The Holding Charge, h, is 15% per year, and you've determined that the Economic Order Quantity, Q*, is 5,200 units. And last thing we give you is that Lead Time is two weeks. So now what I want to do is find the appropriate (s, Q) Policy assuming a Cycle Service Level of 95%. So, first step, I want to find my expected Demand Over Lead Time-- my mu(DL). That's simply going to be the annual amount divided by the n, or number of periods that my Lead Time fits within the annual demand time. And so that's 26-- there's 26 two-week periods in a year. So I simply divide through, and I get 2,385. For the standard deviation, same thing: I take the annual standard deviation of 8,000 and divide that by square root of n, or square root of 26, and that gives me 1,569 units as a standard deviation. So now I know my expected Demand Over Lead Time, I know the standard deviation of Demand Over Lead Time. The next thing I want to do is find my k. So to help me find my k, I've been given that CSL, or Cycle Service Level of 95%. So that's telling me that the probability that my demand, x, will be less than this k that I'm going to pick should be 0.95. So looking at the tables, or using spreadsheet functions, you can do either one, I can find that k equals 1.644, or 1.64. And once I have the k, we're off to the races, because then I can just go in and look at my Reorder Point Policy, and it's simply going to be the expected Demand Over Lead Time plus k times the standard deviation Demand Over Lead Time, and that-- let's clean that up-- that gives me 4,958 units. So what is my policy? My policies is order 5,200 units, that's the Q, when Inventory Position falls below 4,958 units. Now, before we go to the next Level of Service metric, let's take a look at how the k-Factor affects the Cycle Service Level. So remember, if I have a k-Factor of zero, what does that mean? Well, let me draw the normal distribution up here. Something like that. And this is the mean, right? If I have a k-Factor of zero, that means I'm going to have that much probability that I will not stock out, because if k is zero, then my s is right at my mean. And there would be this much probability that I would stock out. It would be half and half: 50%, 50%. Now, the question is what happens as the k gets bigger and starts going this way? So I start covering more. The probability that I don't stock out gets bigger and bigger as my k increases. But notice what this curve looks like. So if I draw this out, and notice first what the range of the k-Factor is, I stopped at negative three and positive three, it technically goes on for infinity, but realistically you can think of k as standard deviations. And if you're more than three standard deviations away from the mean, you're pretty far out on the tails. So with a k-Factor of zero-- that's right here-- that gives me a Cycle Service Level of 50%. 50% percent probability we'll stock out, 50% probability we won't. The thing I want to point out, if I improve from 50% to, say, 70%, right to here, that's going to take a k-Factor increase of 0.5. In other words, I'm going to have to keep 0.5 of whatever my standard deviation of Demand over Lead Time, more inventory. If I wanted to do another 20%, that would take me up here, I would need almost 50% more. I would have to add another 75, 0.75 in the k-Factor. If I want to go again just 10 more, then I would have to add almost another 1.5 of k. The idea is as I increase my k, it gets harder and harder to improve your Cycle Service Level. It will require more and more inventory to cover these last limits. So going from 50% Cycle Service Level to 60% is dramatically different than going from 80% to 90%, or 90% to 99%. It gets increasingly more difficult, and that's a function of the normal curve. OK, so that's it for Cycle Service Level. And then you should always think about this k-Factor curve when you're developing your Cycle Service Levels.
