Week 4, Lesson 3 · Video 5

Let's take a look now at Incremental Quantity Discounts. So these differ from the All Units Discount in that the discount only applies to that quantity purchased above whatever that breakpoint quantity is, Q1. But like any discount, it's still a trade-off between lower purchase cost and higher carrying costs-- because a lower purchase price means that you're probably going to order more, which means you're going to have more cycle stock and more inventory holding costs. So the insight though, that we want to bring out from using incremental discounts, the way to figure it out is that, you can assume once I go above a certain break point, all of the costs for the quantity that I bought below that breakpoint becomes a fixed cost that we'll call Fi. The idea is if I'm above a certain break point, it doesn't matter how many more I order-- I have a fixed amount, it won't change the price that I paid for that first quantity that's applying to the lower discount level. So what this means is whenever I move from one price-- and this is the c0, this is the base price / unit. And I might have a c1 for another discount, and a c2 for another discount, where c1 only applies if I go above this Q1 quantity break point, and c2 only applies here if I go above the Q2 level. And as we can see, we hope that the c0 is always greater than c1, which is greater than c2-- that c2 for the higher quantity discount should always be the lowest price per unit. But what I'm pointing out here for this fixed cost is, if I look at the c0, the lowest period where I have no discount, my fixed cost-- this is the F0, my fixed cost for being in zone 0 where no discount applies, is there. If I'm in this zone here between Q1 and Q2, then I look at the price of c1 and I see that this point is actually a fixed price-- I'm going to call it F1-- because no matter how much I order, whether it's here, or here, or here, the amount that I pay for quantity Q1 doesn't change, because it's going to be based off of this amount. So it doesn't really affect, so we can treat that as a fixed cost. For the second zone above Q2, this point here will be the fixed cost for that. And I can assume the per price cost, per unit cost, is going to be the slope of this C2 line. OK. So what we want to figure out is how do I figure out those F1 and F2 quantities when I go to some of the discounts. Well, I know this quantity, this whole quantity here-- because that's simply the rate at which the base price, c0, moves over a Q1 quantity. So I know that the total amount is c0 or c0*Q1. I also know that this quantity on the top is the same distance, Q1 multiplied by the slope of c1. So that's c1*Q1. But what I want to figure out is this distance, because that's the fixed quantity or the fixed cost if I'm in zone one where the first discount applies. And so I just subtract the two: c0*Q1 - c1*Q1, is just the difference, (c0 - c1)*Q1. And so therefore, I know what my fixed cost is. So if I have a quantity that falls within this zone 1 where the d1 applies, and therefore the cost c1 applies, then I can use c1 as my variable cost. But then I'm going to add this fixed cost of F1 into the calculation. And F1-- the more general form is right here-- and it's simply the fixed cost of the previous one plus the difference in the two slopes of the variable cost times whatever that breakpoint quantity is. And then you're just going to add in that fixed cost like you would with the c_t-- because it's just another piece of the fixed cost, because it doesn't change with the quantity level as long as I'm within that discount zone. So the process for doing this is the same as for the All Units, just a little bit different. But you're going to go through and you're going to calculate each of the fixed cost points for however many discounts you have. And always remember that F0 = 0. There is no fixed discount cost when no discount applies. Then you find the Q* for each range, including that F1 value. You do that right here. And if it's within the allowable range, then you want to calculate what the total relevant cost is. If you find the Q* and it's not within the allowable range of the discount, then just ignore it and move to the next one. But if I find one that falls within that range, then all I want to figure out the total relevant cost-- I can use this equation, which is just saying it's finding an effective cost per unit, or effective variable cost-- it's taking what the cost / unit is for the variable, and then taking that fixed cost and simply dividing the total quantity that falls under that. And that's determining and it's adding to that effective per unit cost. So that's how you handle Incremental Discounts.
