Week 4, Lesson 3 · Video 3

The next set of extensions to the EOQ, or Economic Order Quantity, deal with the volume, or quantity discounts, with how much you buy. So the assumption we're going to loosen is going to be this one up here, this discounts. And so instead of having the purchase price, or the price per item, c, be constant, it's going to be a function, now, of how much we buy of the Q. So since the purchase price is a function of Q, it is now a relevant decision-- it is in that relevant variable for how much I'm going to buy. So we need to include that, when we determine the EOQ. So let's look at the three most common cases. There are many ways you can do discounts, but here the three most common. And so the first is All Units Discount. And this is where, whatever the discount is that you're going to give, applies to all the units that you purchase, as long as you exceed some break point quantity. So along the horizontal axis, here, I've got the Q, the quantity you're going to order, and c is the cost / item, and D is your annual demand. And so I put in this Q1 and this Q2, and these are break points. So if you buy above Q1, right, you get a lower rate cost per item. So here, this c0 would be the lowest, or it would be the initial price, and then this c1 would apply if I'm in that break point past Q1. And cost two, c2, would apply if I'm above that break point, Q2, and you'd expect that c0 is greater than c1 is greater than c2. In other words, you get a lower cost per item as you go up. And this is very common. This is the most common in industrial settings, where you try-- the vendor tries to encourage you to order more, then it helps them with their economies of scale. The next type that you see a lot in the retail space, is what's known as an Incremental Discount. And this where a discount applies to the c, only to the quantity that's purchased beyond the break point. So here, I have the same two break points, Q1 and Q2. But the idea is, if I buy, 1-Q1, so I'm buying this, right, and I'm paying that price where that's c0. As I break over there, I'm still paying c0 for all the items up to Q1. Beyond that, every item beyond that, up to break point 2, I'm paying c1 as an incremental cost. So it only applies to the quantities beyond the break point. So think of it as if you go to some store where you're buying some clothes, you might "buy 2, get 1 (get a third) at half price". Or those coffee cards where you "buy 11, you get the 12th for free". That's an Incremental Discount. You see that a lot of times in retail situations. The last one that we're going to talk about is a One Time Only Discount, and this happens in industrial settings. And the idea is your vendor, whether they're trying to hit end of quarter, or end of year, for some reason they're offering you a big discount. So if my inventory on hand looks like this, and this is that common sawtooth that we've talked about, where this is the cycle stock. And instead of how much you normally buy, he's saying well, you know what, if you buy a whole bunch more, then I'll give you a really good price on it. So there's no quantity limit. It's kind of a one time buy, and then you go back to your normal order frequency. So we'll talk about how you determine whether it makes sense to do this one time buy, and how much you should buy. So these are the three types of discounts that we're going to discuss.
