Week 7, Lesson 1 · Video 6

OK. Now we're going to turn to continuous distributions. And the first continuous distribution we're going to assume is the uniform. So let's say my sales or demand for chicken over the last 180 days looks like this. And so I'm going to throw this into a histogram. And I noticed a couple things. I notice there's a min of 60 and a max up here of 140. And it looks pretty much like a straight line. So it kind of makes sense that this might be uniform. So I'm going to assume that it's a uniform distribution and a min of 60 and a max of 140. Now, you might be saying to yourself, well, why don't we treat this like discrete uniform distribution? Because I can still only sell integer chickens. I can't sell 3.2. So why shouldn't I keep it that way? And the real reason-- you could. It'd be a little painful, but you can make this continuous distribution because look at the values from 60 to 140. So do I really want to have 80 individual units there? Maybe it's a little easier when I have a higher value that I assume a continuous distribution, and that's because the rounding doesn't matter as much. So let's say I came out with 95.4 chickens are needed. You know, if around that down to 95 or up to 96, it's no big deal. Now if my uniform distribution, say was from 8 to 14, then it's a big deal. Right? Then doing eight or nine or nine and 10-- that's a big difference. But when I get to these higher values, the rounding doesn't matter as much. So you'll see continuous distribution's really widely used in inventory when you're modeling something of a higher value. Usually if it's greater than 30, you'll start using continuous distributions, whether it's uniform, normal, or otherwise. OK. So let's dive in and review some of the continuous uniform distribution. The PDF looks like this. We have a minimum of 60, a maximum of 140. Those are the two parameters. And my PDF looks like this-- 1 over b minus a, which makes sense. It's equal probability for every value between a and b. And so I can calculate the mean, the median, and the variance. And those are simple formulas for you there. Then I look at the CDF, and the CDF should look familiar. We talked about this in one of the earlier segments. And so the probability that our value is less than x is 0 up to the minimum. And it's 100 after the maximum. And in between, it follows that nice linear relationship. And so the CDF is down here between those values a and b. It's x minus the minimum divided by the range, which is the max minus the min. So it's a pretty easy distribution to use. I like to do it as a first approximation a lot of times because it's so simple to use. So let's solve our chicken problem using the uniform distribution. So I am assuming that my min and my max are 60 and 140. So I'm distributed uniformly from 60 to 140. And so my first question-- how many chickens are needed to solve for probability of stock out being less than equal to 10%? Well, would we know what that means? That means the probability that my value will be less than that value x needs to be 90%, or 1 minus 0.1. So if I put this in as 0.90, I can use my CDF and solve for x. What x gives me the value that the probability of x is less than equal to x is 0.9? So solving that in, solving for x, you get that it's 132. So 132 chickens a day-- if I roast that many, I will stock out approximately no more than 10% of the time. And it's just using that CDF formula. So much easier than using an empirical distribution, isn't it? Next question-- if I have 75 chickens roasted, what will my probability of stock out be? And I'm just going to plug x in for 75. And I'm going to solve for this CDF. So 75 minus 60 over the range, which is 80, gives me 0.1875. So that means the probability of stocking out is 1 minus that, or 81%. So these two are very easy to use. The CDF is very useful here. That's why it's such a nice function to use. Now, the next question we asked is what is the expected units sold and short if I roast 75 chickens. Well, this gets a little more tricky because continuous distributions are a little more difficult to solve than discrete. And so let's do an aside. And in the next segment, we'll talk about how to do that. And then we'll come back to solving this problem assuming the continuous uniform distribution.
