Week 3, Lesson 2 · Video 5

In this video, we're going to talk about how you can forecast demand for products that have intermittent demand. What do I mean by intermittent demand? Let's do a quick example and you'll see what we mean. Suppose I have an item that's ordered for me once every six months, and every time it's ordered, it's for 1,000 units. So the average monthly demand is going to simply be the average annual demand, 2,000 units-- two of these deliveries each year, two of these orders, rather-- divided by 12, 167 units. So the question is, what happens if I forecast this demand using simple exponential smoothing? Remember, exponential smoothing, I've got my alpha term and that's the smoothing constant. I'm going to multiply it by the most recent observed demand, plus 1 minus alpha, times my most recent estimate of demand. And so if my demand pattern looks like this and I apply exponential smoothing, it's going to look like this. It is introducing a sawtooth pattern. Why? Well, let's see what happens. If I'm here at time period 1, let's say, I get some information, then I get a big order of 1,000 units. And so it's going to up that forecast. However, the next five time periods has 0, so the new information is a 0 each time, so it's going to drive the estimated level down. And then another new demand comes in at 1,000. It's going to peak it right back up again because simple exponential smoothing is looking for a level. Now, you might say yes, but this demand is at a level. It's at 1,000 every time, and that's true. The problem is that it's intermittent, or sporadic. It's not constant. It's coming in occasionally, even though it's deterministic in terms of how much is ordered and how frequently it's ordered, every six months. Let me give a similar example, and I'll just make it a little more realistic. Now my demand for the product has the same average annual demand of 2,000 units, but the time period is infrequent, it's irregularly ordered, and they come in different sizes. So you can see that using exponential smoothing here makes it even worse. Here, I've got the same total demand coming in. It's just not always 1,000 units a time period. Sometimes it's more, sometimes it's less. It's not every six months. Sometimes it's longer, sometimes it's shorter. But at the end of the day if I use exponential smoothing, because it's intermittent, I'm going to introduce more volatility because it's trying to find that level. So the question is, how can I use exponential smoothing, or some tool, to get a more stable and predictable forecast that I can use in my inventory replenishment decisions? And so the idea here is that maybe I want to separate out two components because there's two sources of variability that I want to capture. One is the time between the transactions or those orders, and the other is the magnitude of the individual transactions. What this is called is Croston's Method. What the demand process looks like, we assume it's going to look something like this, where xt is the demand in time period t, and that's going to be equal to the product of y sub t times z sub t. The y sub t is simply a binary variable. If a transaction occurs in that period, it's a 1. Otherwise, it's 0. Then we say the zt is the size or magnitude of the transaction at that time period. So zt is how much they order, and yt is if they order. So I can think of, if demand is independent between the time periods, then the probability that a transaction is going to occur is 1 over n, where n is the number of time periods on average between those orders or those transactions. I can say that the probability that an order occurs in a time period is 1 over n. Therefore, the probability that an order doesn't happen is 1 minus 1 over n. Thinking with this and breaking the process up like this, I can create the updating procedure. The updating procedure happens in two steps, or there's two cases. The first case is in the time period I'm forecasting if nothing happens. So in x sub t, if there is no demand, no transaction occurs, then I'm not going to update my z, my magnitude of the order, or my n, where n is the number of periods since my last transaction. This n is capturing the time in between transactions or orders. So if nothing happens, I don't update. If something does happen, so if demand does materialize, x sub t is greater than 0, then I update two things. I update my z, which is the magnitude of the size of the order, and my n, which is the number of times between the orders. How do I update them? It's just a straight smoothing that we've been doing a lot of in the last couple weeks. For the magnitude, I've got this alpha term, which is between 0 and 1, and it's going to balance in alpha times what actually just got ordered, and then plus 1 minus alpha times my most recent estimate, my z hat, over t minus 1, the previous period. For the n terms, the number of periods since the last transaction, the estimate is going to be equal to this beta, another smoothing coefficient. And this alpha and the beta, they could be the same values, times nt, which is how many times since my last transaction, plus 1 minus beta times the most recent estimate of that n hat of t minus 1, my most recent estimate of how long it is between transactions on average. Once I have these estimates of the z hat and the n hat, then I go back to my demand process, and therefore my forecast, the forecasted demand sitting in time t for time t plus 1 is going to be my estimate of the magnitude divided by the estimate of the number of time periods between orders, z hat t over n hat t. What this is doing is finding the estimated demand per period. Let's do an example so you can see what it looks like. I'm using the same data that I did in my previous example. Average demand is about 2,000 units per year, and there's irregular transaction size and time between orders. I want to create an order for demand going forward using Croston's Method. Here's my demand pattern down on the bottom. This is a spreadsheet, so I've got my alpha, 0.3, and my beta, 0.2, whatever you want to pick the numbers. The effect won't change. It'll just be a little sharper or a little duller. And what I've got for data is I've got in column A my time periods. Column B is the actual demand, and you see in time period two, 1,000 units are ordered, and in time period one, three, and four, nothing is ordered. What do I have in column C? This is the forecast of demand sitting in time t for time t plus 1. This is the forecast. What's in cell C7 is the forecast for time period 4. What is it equal to? It's equal to the estimate of the magnitude, the z hat t in cell E7, divided by the estimate of the number of times between transactions in cell F7. So I'm just dividing the estimated magnitude by the frequency. Cell D is simply the count, and I just put this in here so you can see what the function is. All it's saying is if demand occurs-- that's what's in column B-- if B6 is greater than 0, then I start over. It's equal to 1. It's looking at the previous time period and saying, if there's demand, I start over. If there's not, then I'm just going to add to the previous time period. It's a way of counting between transactions. The next cell in column E is simply saying, if the demand occurs in my time period B7, then I'm going to do the smoothing. This is just the smoothing equation where I'm smoothing between what actually happened, alpha times xt plus 1 minus alpha times what's in E6 is my most recent estimate, just like exponential smoothing we've done previously. And in column F, same thing again for the n term, the number of periods between transactions. Again, it's triggered off of whether I have demand occurring. So if demand occurs, I smooth based off of my most recent number of times that I've had since the transaction, and smoothed with the old information with my most recent estimate. So the result of this is a straight line. It's not a straight line, but it's a much smoother estimate. Now, why is this better? Well, this is essentially capturing the estimated demand per period. So we're saying that demand builds up over this period, and this is what would feed into an inventory replenishment model. So even though I have this intermittent, sparse, highly irregular demand, I'm able to get a nice, smooth forecast for the purpose of inventory replenishment. Again, this is known as Croston's Method. Essentially what we're doing is we're shifting the updating to only after an order occurs. We're waiting for that transaction to occur. It smooths out the forecast for replenishment purposes. The average usage period is kind of the base level that it's forecasting. It's shown to be unbiased and it has a lower variance than if I use simple smoothing. It's a nice way to smooth out that forecast to feed into those inventory replenishment models. Some cautions, though. Because I'm only updating infrequently, there might be a lag in responding. I want to use a kind of smoothing of the mean square error, and I only want to include the non-zero transactions. I only want to include those periods where I actually had demand coming in. What I do for this, because I need this mean square error when we plug this into some inventory models that we'll talk about in future weeks. It's going to be equal to the smoothing coefficient times the most recent error, what actually happened minus what my estimate of what the magnitude would be squared, plus 1 minus that omega smoothing constant times the old mean square error that I had estimated previously. What this does is this keeps track and estimates the mean square error whenever I get new updated information. That's Croston's Method. This wraps up our discussion of how to forecast for intermittent demand.
