Week 4, Lesson 2 · Video 2

So now let's derive the equation for EOQ, how to solve it analytically. We already saw how we could solve it using a chart and find where the minimum value is, as I plot the holding cost and the order cost with relation to the order quantity. But let's find out how to solve it analytically. So what I have is this continuous equation, this total relevant cost as a function of Q. Remember, it's just the sum of the ordering cost and the holding cost. And all I want to do is find where at this point is the minimum. And to do that, if you remember back from Calculus I, you take a first derivative, you set it equal to 0 and solve for Q. And then to make sure it's global min, then you want to make sure and take a second derivative. And you want to say if it's a minimum, I know that the second derivative will always be greater than 0. And if it's a global max, it's always going to be less than 0. So let's see what we've got. We start with this equation, we take a first derivative. Very straightforward. Set it equal to 0, and I'm going to solve for Q. And I have all the steps here, just in case you want to follow it. It's really simple algebra. But we end up with Q* = sqrt(2) times the cost per order times the annual demand divided by the unit cost for holding inventory. Now, to make sure that it's a global minimum, we want to go and take a second derivative. So I take a second derivative of this. Again, pretty straightforward. And I end up with this term, 2 times the cost per order times the annual demand over the cube of the order quantity. The important thing here is that this value will always be greater than 0. The ordering cost will never be negative. The annual demand won't be negative. And you're never going to order a negative amount. So this value will always be greater than 0. Therefore, this is a global minimum. And so this is the EOQ equation that you'll be using a lot of. But now let's find some other things. Let's find the time between replenishments for the optimal Q. And remember, here's our Q* and that T* is simply Q* over D. Remember, because Q* is units per order, D is units per year, and if the units cancel out, this tells me the years between the order. So I could just divide Q* by D. Or I could find it in terms of the input variables. And all I did was just carry it out with a Q* in here. And so I know that the T* going to be = sqrt(2 times the cost per order divided by the annual demand and divided by the cost per holding inventory per unit). So either way, you can do this. And sometimes it's also helpful to have this in terms of the N, which is just the inverse of T, 1/T. Because T will tell you the years between each order. The N will tell you the number of orders you'll place in the time of a year. The critical thing, whichever you do, is it's always helpful to put the T* in units that make sense. Telling someone that its 0.33 years per every order isn't as helpful sometimes as saying you order three times a year. And so make sure it's in units of time that make sense to the decision maker. OK, the last thing I want to do is find the total relevant cost for this optimal Q. So I've got my total relevant cost equation here. And here's the Q* we just derived. And what I'm going to do is just plug the Q* back in. Going to clean it up a little bit by moving terms around, combining some common terms. And you end up with this total relevant cost = the sqrt(2 times the cost per transaction-- the order cost-- times the inventory holding cost per unit time times the annual demand). Now, remember this total relevant cost is not the same thing as the total cost. I've got to add back in the purchase cost, which is c times D. Now, notice that this purchase cost has no bearing on what the optimal order quantity is. It just helps me when I need to know what my total cost is going to be. But the purchase cost doesn't impact what my order quantity is going to be. All right. So let's do a really simple example. This should look familiar. This is the same example we did to get an intuition. So we know our demand, our D, is 2,000 units per year. We know our transaction cost, our c_t is $500 per order. We figured out our c_e, our cost of excess inventory, is $12.50. Let me just write that in there. It's just 50 times 0.25. And I think that's all we need to know. Our c is $50 per unit. So what do I want to figure out? Well, I want to figure out Q*. So as we just figured out, this is going to be = sqrt( 2 times my c_t which I said was 500, times my D, which is 2,000-- let me just spread that out. This is going to be divided by my c_e which is 12.5). So I get a Q* = 400 units per order. All right. And from this, I can very easily figure out my T* What is my order frequency going to be? And that's simply-- remember, the Q* over D. And that's going to be 400 units over 2,000 units per year, which equals 0.2 years per order. Like I said, that's not so helpful, right? So if I multiply it by 365 for the days in the year, I can get this 73 days per order. But what might be even more helpful is to put this in terms of N, which is simply the inverse. Right? 1/T* And that's simply going to be 2,000 over 400, which is 5. And that's 5 orders per year, which makes it a little easier to understand. OK. We also want to figure out our total relevant cost. And remember, we said our total relevant cost is going to be = sqrt( 2 times c_t times c_e times D). And that's going to be = sqrt (2-- cost per transaction we said was, what, 500? 12.50 for the cost of holding inventory per unit time, and I think we had 2,000 units per year). So I got my total relevant cost to be $5,000 per year. Check for yourself. Plug this back in to the straight TRC equation, and you'll find out that holding cost = ordering cost = 2,500. Right? It's even for this. It's where those two are equal. What's my total cost from this? Well, I've got to add in my purchase cost, cD, plus my total relevant cost. So that's going to be equal to, what? c is, what did I say? 50 times 2,000. And I've got to add in my $5,000, which I just figured out from my total relevant cost. And this comes out to be $105,000 per year. 100,000 of that is in the purchase of the product itself. The 5,000 is in the inventory holding costs and the ordering costs. So at the end of the day, I want to figure out what is my inventory policy. So my policy is going to be really straightforward. I want to order Q* which is 400 units. Right? And I want to order this when inventory on hand = 0. Because remember, we said the assumption here is when I place the order, it gets delivered immediately. Another way I could say this is I would say that I order 400 units every 73 days, which is T* So all we did is state our policy in terms of Q* and T* so it could be implemented. And that's the whole essence of an inventory policy. And this is how you do it for assuming an economic order quantity.
