Week 8, Lesson 3 · Video 4

So. The receiving function is the first thing you have to do in the warehouse and this kind of sets up the entire interaction you have with that distribution center or that warehouse facility. And so just some basic practices, or best practices, here because remember, your role for receiving is, this is the interface with how you deal with the rest of the network. So one thing is to use advanced shipping notices, or ASNs. These. Are simply electronic notifications of deliveries or pending deliveries and there are different standards, EDA 856 messages, there's EDIFACT messages as well and we'll talk more about these and later courses. But the whole idea, and it seems so trivial, but giving people information ahead of time is so useful because then you can plan your labor, you can coordinate accordingly, and you can use this to trigger payment to the vendor. So the idea of advanced shipping notices, giving people advance notice of what's coming in exactly and when, can really streamline the operations in a warehouse. Similar to that you want to integrate your yard and dock scheduling. So you have all these, typically trucks or maybe rail, coming in on the inbound. And so for, in the US, queuing at a facility, known as dwell time, can exceed 20% of a driver's day. That's 20% of the time they're not getting paid. It's just a waste of time for them. It also increases the carbon footprint because vehicles idling are not a good thing. So you want to make sure that the dock scheduling is set up. And again, it seems like something so trivial, but if you've been in the industry it's a huge issue because, as a warehouse, I want everything showing up at 8:00 in the morning, right? When my work crew comes in. And so everyone wants to be there at the same time. So what you have to try and do is schedule this out. And if you get a little delayed, then it might have a ripple effect for the different schedules. So integrating the yard, which is the area where the vehicles move outside the facility, and the dock scheduling are critical elements. And there's a lot of systems out there that can help with this. This is a problem at ports as well as distribution centers. And it's all because of the interface and the timing of the different deliveries coming in. The other thing that you need to think about for best practices here of receiving is preparing the shipment because this is just coming into your facility. You want to make it so it's really easy to go out. So you might want a prepackaged things in the issue increments that it's going to go out as. And so if you know things come in and get ordered out as say, a three-quarters pallet , you might want to match that to the order size. It makes it easier. So the whole idea is, when I'm receiving something keep in mind how I'm going to get it out. And you want to make sure you capture that. Make that process as easy as possible at the initial step, that receiving step. You want to capture and communicate the cube, which is the volume, or the weight information. You want to apply tags and labels as needed. Anything you can do to make the rest of that materials journey through your warehouse easier, should be done right up front. The best option for receiving though, is to minimize what you have to do. And so we talked about this earlier and the whole idea of dropshipping. You want to do dropshipping whenever you can because it reduces the number of touches and handling. So direct ship from a vendor to a customer DC is the best as long as you can make it economically justified. And so the way that some companies do this, they do some interesting things. You might have a multi-stop movement. And we'll talk more about this when we get into transportation, but essentially it picks up from one origin and makes two or three drop-offs. So it doesn't have a full truckload to each, but it allows it to still, each of the items within the vehicle has two touches, the loading and unloading. And so you do multiple stops or you use multi-compartment vehicles. So, for example, a grocery store might receive some frozen items, some refrigerated items, and some ambient, or room temperature, items. Well, you can have a vehicle that has three compartments, frozen, refrigerated, and ambient. And so they make one delivery of three different things. So it's still a dropship because you're going from one point to another point without a flow in between. So you look for these opportunities whenever possible. If they're not possible, next step explore cross-docking because, again, we want to minimize the handling. So the idea here is that inbound, IB, pallets are sorted . And move directly to the staging areas at the outbound docks so there is no staging at the inbound, at the receiving, there's no inspection, there's no storage. You move them straight over there. Cross-docking . Operations shouldn't interfere with other operations in the warehouse that's why it's always done right up front. So here in the u-shaped I bring things in in receiving and bring it here and I'd start staging it to the side, right? start staging it for when the vehicles get there. Chances are the trucks aren't just waiting. Right? They're probably scheduled to come. You might see this also in some other facilities, like a flow-through as opposed to a U. And this is where a lot of less than truckload terminals have, where you have things come in and they get moved over and start getting staged for the outbound, right? So something here gets staged over here. And you can see that it's trying to move it directly from the inbound to the outbound. Now, interestingly. There's a parallel. We all do this ourselves when we go traveling for example, if you take a flight and you have some kind of, if it's not a direct flight, if you have some intermediate stop the same thing happens to you. You come in at one terminal, or one gate, and you've got to self-sort to the next gate. This happens for all types of transportation when there's sorting. The only difference between you at an airport and a pallet here, is that you tend to sort yourself. The pallet needs a little help. It has to be sorted over. . But it's the same thing, the same idea. You want to minimize the time it takes to get from gate to gate. , You want to make that as efficient as possible. You don't want to be stored inventory, you don't want to spend 20 hours there. Right? So the same concept you have for your air passenger travel apply here to cross-docking. So this is a day of receiving. It's not a tremendous amount of the percentage of labor that required, but if you do it right, it sets up the rest of the time that your material spends the warehouse that much more efficient.
