Week 7, Lesson 1 · Video 7

So in this segment, I want to show you how to find the expected values for continuous distributions. To do this, we're going to make a little bit of a side trip into integration, but that's OK. I just want you to see where it's coming from. So let's talk about the expected units that we're trying to find. So we talked about trying to find the expected units demanded, the expected units sold, and the expected units short. That's what we're looking for. When we talked about discrete distributions, to find the expect units demanded, it was pretty straightforward. We sum up for all the different values, 0 to infinity. But in this case, it would be from 6 to 14. Then we simply do 6 times the probability that I get 6, which is x times Px-- which is about 11%-- plus 7 times the probability that 7 would appear, and so forth. And that gives me my expected value of x. I'm summing up the value times the probability of that value occurring. For continuous distributions, it's the same thing, except instead of summing up discrete integers, I'm using this summation, which assumes a continuous distribution. And so I'm summing up from 0 to infinity. X times that function-- this is just the PDF, And this dx is an infinitesimal width. Consider it like I'm summing up little rectangles underneath the function. And by summing those up, I get the expected value. Now, expected units sold for discrete, we did it-- remember, when your demand is less than or equal to Q-- the amount you have on hand-- it's that expected value. That's that first term. And the second was essentially how much you have on hand, Q, times the sum, where x is Q plus 1 to infinity, times the probability of that happening, which is the probability of stocking out. You add those two terms. We're going to have the same things for the continuous. Except instead of summations, we're going to integrate. But you have the same functional form. For expected units short-- remember, this is where, say, I had-- I don't know-- 8 here. And so when I have demand greater than that value that I have on hand, the Q, then I'm finding the expected value of x minus Q and times the probability of each of those x's occurring. So you're summing that up for all the demand higher than what you have on hand. For continuous, it's the exact same thing except you have to integrate, because we're going continuously. We don't have these discrete values to sum. But again, it's still the demand, x, minus Q, what I have on hand, times that PDF. And I'm going to integrate that. So what I want to show you is how integration works and how we actually do that to show you the mechanics. Now, differentiation and integration are actually related. They're reverse operations. When we differentiated-- we did this when we calculated the economic order quantity, the EOQ-- we're finding the slope of a curve. And remember, we set that equal to 0 when we're finding an extreme solution of a min or a max. Well, integration simply calculates the area under a curve. So here's a simple function. This is a linear function. y equals 3x. And you see x is on the horizontal axis. y is on the vertical axis. It's a straight line. You guys should be very comfortable with this. y equals 3x. So the slope is 3, which is the rise over the run. So if I take a derivative of this-- and hopefully, you guys can do that-- the derivative of 3x is simply 3. Then this is telling me my slope, which we just showed here. It's pretty obvious. Now, if I want to take the integral, this gives us the area under the curve. So the form is going to look something like this. You've got a lower and an upper bound. These are the bounds which we want to find the area from-- 0 to 1, 0 to 2, 0 to 100, whatever. The f's of x is just the function that's being integrated. In this case, remember, we said it was 3x. And this dx is just an infinitesimally small slice of the function. Think of it as a rectangle with dx. And what we're going to do is make that dx as small as possible. So essentially, we're going to make it go almost to 0. And you can think of finding these little slices of rectangles and summing up all those areas of each of those. That's what that infinitesimal, that dx, is. All right. So what does this look like? So I'm going to find the area under this curve from 0 to 2. And so what is my function? It's just 3x, and that's simply just here. I just plugged it in right here. So there's a rule here, and I'll show you the rule in a second. It's just the opposite of the derivative, essentially. So the integral of 3x is simply going to be 3x squared-- I'm incrementing, adding 1-- divided by 2, what I incremented it to. Now, we'll show you how to do that in a second. So don't worry. So I have this form, and then notice that I have it-- these numbers, 0 and 2, that's the bounds. So what I'm going to do is solve that function first at the high value, the upper bound-- so I'm plugging the 2 in for x-- and then I'm going to subtract off solved at the lower bound. So it's 3 times 2 squared over 2 minus 3 times 0 squared over 2, which gives me 6. Now, if we know the area of a triangle-- one half base times height-- notice that base is 2, height is 6, so that area is 6. So thankfully, they match. So I used integration here to find the area under the curve, just a straightforward calculation. So let me show you what the rule is. So we showed you the power rule for finding derivatives when we calculated economic order quantity. So if y is a function a times x to the n, we know the derivative is a to the n, x to the n minus 1. We decrement this, and we multiply the form. So for two examples, if y equals 3x squared, then the derivative is simply three times 2-- or 6-- x, because the 2 gets decremented to 1. If y equals 4x, then the derivative is simply 4. So hopefully, you're comfortable with that because then integration just works in the opposite direction. So if I want to take a derivative of a times x to the n dx, then all I'm going to do is increment the exponential by 1-- add 1 to it-- and I'm going divide the whole term by the amount that I incremented it to. So for example, if y equals 6x, then the integral of that is simply going to be 6 times x to the 2 divided by 2, which is 3x squared. Now, what's interesting-- notice that you came right back to where you started. This is why they're reverse functions. If I take a function and differentiate it, and then take the integral of that differentiated function, I get back to the original function. So they work in both directions. So let me show you a quick example of how to find an expected value, or a mean, or an average using integration. All right. So remember, previously when we did this for the discrete distribution up here in the left, in the blue, again, it was simply the value times the probability plus the value times the probability, and I summed it up for all of the values. Here, I'm going to integrate from the min to the max, and I'm going to use that infinitesimal, the dx. That's what I'm really doing. I'm making that as small as possible, and I'm really summing up a bunch of little rectangles. So I've got my form. The expected value of x is going to be the value of x times the PDF times that dx. And I'm integrating from 0 to infinity. So let's do it for the continuous distribution of the uniform distribution. So my f's of x is my PDF, and it's going to sum up to 1. And the form that I have is going to be 1 over b minus a. So I put this in here. Going from 0 to infinity, I know from 0 to a, the probability, the function is 0, because that's what I said here. And that's what I'm saying in this space. It's not going to happen below. Between a and b, it's this form-- 1 over b plus a times x-- to find that expected value. And from b to infinity, that's this term. I'm back to 0. So this really reduces to this. The expected value is going to be from x equals a to b of x times the function, the PDF, 1 over b minus a. So if I use my inverse power rule, I increment that to x squared and divide by 2, and I get this term. So now I've integrated. So it's x squared over 2 times b minus a. And now I want to evaluate this from a to b. So what do I do? I solve it first for subbing b in for x, and that is this term-- b squared over 2 times b minus a. Then I subtract off for the a term. And essentially what you're doing is you're taking the whole area and subtracting off the area that isn't included in your range. And so I have this, and I can solve for this. Let me just put that out. Let me clean this up a little. It's getting messy. So it will be b squared minus a squared over 2 times b minus a. And if we're clever and move some things around, I know that b squared minus a squared is the same thing as b minus a times b plus a. And then the b minus a's cancel out. So I get a plus b over 2. And hopefully, this looks very familiar. a plus b over 2 is our expected value for the uniform distribution. OK, so I just went through and showed you how this is. I wanted to make sure you see where this is coming from, how it's done, because we use math. It's not magic. All right. So in the next section, we're going to dive just a little bit deeper to show you how we find expected units short and expected units sold.
