Week 2, Lesson 1 · Video 5: Subjective and Objective Approaches

OK. So let's talk about subjective and objective approaches. You can break most forecasting approaches into either being subjective or objective. And it's kind of an arbitrary distinction, but you can think of subjective approaches are generally used more by the sales and marketing side. And the objective ones are used predominantly by the production inventory. But that's not always true. But when you look at subjective, you've got two types. The first is judgemental. And the underlying concept here, or the thought is, that someone somewhere knows what the demand is. So you want to get their judgment because someone knows. Maybe their collective judgment. They know what the demand will be. So this shows itself in sales force surveys. So when I was working in software we would ask the sales reps what they expect the demand to be because they're the closest to the customers. We think that they have a better idea of the situation. So we're using a subjective, judgmental approach to trying to forecast demand. Now, of course, they're sales guys so we divide their estimate by two. But still, it's the idea of, you think the judgment is out there. Someone somewhere knows. You can also use a jury of experts, or Delphi techniques. And this is a more refined technique of using a jury of experts. We'll talk about that in a future lecture in more detail. But the idea of these judgemental approaches is that the thought is, someone somewhere knows. And we want to use a technique to pull that answer out. The second class of subjective forecasting approaches is the experimental. And so in the experimental approaches the idea is that we want to sample local and then extrapolate. And so we do a customer survey. We get an idea of, what's the favorite flavor or color in a small group. And then we extrapolate what we think the demand's going to be. Same thing with focus group sessions and test marketing. It's all the same thing. We test on a small group. We see what their demands are, what their preferences are, and then we extrapolate that to a larger market to get our full-fledged demand. So that's one category of forecasting. Then we can look on the objective side. And on the objective side we have these causal, or relational, models. And the idea here is that we think there is an underlying cause or reason for demand, and we can capture that and measure that and thereby determine what the demand is going to be. Because we think that the demand is driven, or caused by, some underlying factor. So think about-- if I think the demand for umbrellas is driven by weather I can track the weather and get a sense of what my demand is going to be. Or if I think that the demand for diapers is going to be driven by the birth rate then I can track leading indicators of births in an area, and then that'll give me a proxy for the demand for diapers later on. You can think about it for sports jerseys. And we'll talk about this in an example in a few weeks, where the demand for National Football League sports jerseys is really driven in a large amount by the record of that team, how well they're doing- winning or losing. So in any of these you think there's some underlying factor that you can measure and capture ahead of time to give you an indication of what demand is going to be. And we'll focus in on this mainly with econometrics models, like regression where you try to capture these independent variables onto this dependent variable, this demand. Because you're saying the demand depends on these underlying factors. And there's other models, leading indicators, input-output models. But the idea here is all the same. There's something that's driving demand, and I can measure that and capture that ahead of demand, and that will give me a proxy for what the actual demand will be. Then the final category is time series. And we'll spend a lot of time on this one. But it's very different from the causal approach in that, you don't know what the underlying cause is. You don't care. It's a black box approach. What you're doing is, you're looking at patterns. And we'll talk about the different patterns. But you can think of seasonality, trend, or level. So you look at these patterns and you see how they apply. Because you're going to say, OK, what patterns happened in the past? That's probably going to help me predict the future. But this is very different from a causal analysis. Because on the causal approach I'm identifying the drivers and I'm mapping them. I'm tracking them and using those to predict the demand. For time series I'm just looking at the patterns. I don't know why the seasonality is there, I don't know what's driving the trend, I don't care. I look for the pattern and I think it's going to repeat. So what are we going to do for these different approaches? Let me just clean this up a little bit. We're going to spend a lot of time on time series because it's very commonly used in supply chains. We'll spend a little bit of time on causal, and we'll talk about that. And we'll spend some time looking at these subjective metrics specifically when we look at new product introduction because that's when they're widely used, because for new products you don't have a history of demand, which you need some kind of history for the causal models. You've got to develop a relationship. And you need some kind of history for time series, because you've got to look for those patterns in time. If you've got no history, you can't really do a time series. You can't really do a causal analysis. So that forces you, a lot of times, to use the subjective metrics. So these are the four classes of approaches and we're going to focus in a little bit on each of them.
