Week 4, Lesson 3 · Video 11

All right. Let's go over the key points from this lesson, the extensions to the EOQ model. Hopefully by now, you're very comfortable with EOQ, and you can see it's a great place to start. It's very robust, it's simple to calculate, and again, it's a great starting point. And as you saw from this lesson, we can extend it to cover many different variations. First thing we did was we looked at the lead time. Instead of it being instantaneous, we said what happens if it was a positive, constant number. We saw it had no effect on Q*. It does not impact the optimal quantity you will order. It does change how you want to monitor your inventory, though. And as we said, you want to start looking at the position of the inventory, not just what you have on hand. You have to include what's in the pipeline. And your timing of the replenishment changes-- you look at when your inventory position is less than or equal to the demand times the lead time. So essentially, you're going to place your order when your inventory position is such that you only have enough inventory to cover until your next replenishment is supposed to arrive. Then we looked at discounts. We looked at the All Units, Incremental, and One Time Buy. Very common in practice. The first two, All Units and Incremental, really look at the situation where if you order above a certain amount, your purchase price, c, changes. Therefore, it becomes relevant. And all we did there was look at the different break points and compare and see whether it made sense to take the discount or not, at that breakpoint volume. Then we looked at One Time Buy, and that's where you want to decide-- do I take advantage of this one time deal, and if so, how much? And what happens there is, we turn into a finite problem. We want to look over the time frame that it would take to deplete that Qg amount of quantity. And then finally, we looked at the EPQ, the economic production quantity. This is where we have finite replenishments. And so items become available incrementally over time, as I make them. They don't just come all at once. And we saw what that leads to is a lower holding cost because you're making stuff-- as you're making stuff, you're not having it incur a holding cost, and that leads to a higher EPQ. So these are our three simple extensions. And so hopefully this helped you understand EOQ a little more. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion.
