Week 8, Lesson 3 · Video 9

OK, so we've talked about warehouse functions, from receiving to put away to storage to picking, and now this is the last step-- the check, pack, and ship. And just like the name implies, this is what you need to do-- check, pack, and ship. So for the checking, you're creating and verifying shipping labels. You're confirming the weight and the cube, making sure that everything is in the order that should go out. Remember when we talked about those different picking strategies, some of them required a lot of sorting at the end, and making sure that the order's complete. You need to make sure that gets covered. That's what this step does. For packing, you're probably going to have these disparate units, these eaches and these cases, and they're going to have to be put together. Anyone who's ordered anything online-- multiple items online-- you see this can be a challenge, because these things are put together, they're not necessarily made to travel together, so there's a lot of packaging and maybe some other material in there to hold it together to prevent damage. But all of this is done in the packaging step. You also try to unitize. Remember, this is eaches and cases coming in. You might have to tie them together. So here, this is showing this photo on the bottom right of packages that were unitized. You see that they're wrapped with that plastic wrap. It actually is on a machine. I don't know if you can see it that well. This circle turns, and you've got this roll here of plastic. And essentially, it just rolls around and covers itself. So it unitizes it. Now, this also illustrates something else-- this whole idea of honeycombing. You see how it's packed. There are actually holes in that pallet. Not necessarily a good thing, because I'm shipping air there. So one of the things where this ties together is the whole idea of package design, and trying to minimize the amount of empty space or air that is contained within a pallet. But anyway, this is unitizing. And then the last step is essentially the reverse of the receiving, is you want to ship. And you want to manage your dock doors, your yard management, scheduling for this. You want to minimize the amount of staging that you have, and you're really trying to maximize or optimize the loading within a container and trailer. And there are different systems out there that try to dictate how you'd load different things to maximize the amount of space utilized within a trailer. Now, could be that it cubes out-- it fills up all the space-- or it weighs out-- it fills up enough of the weight that it can't exceed. And so you have different products-- you can think of heavy liquids like sodas or different beverages or detergent-- they will tend to weigh out before they cube out, as opposed to things like paper towels or some light item. And so a lot of times, to try to optimize that, you do a mix of things. You have some heavy things in to use up some of the weight, but then you fill up the rest with really light, but very high-cube, very large-volume things. So you try to make it so that every trailer, every container that goes out, is fully utilized, both in terms of weight and in terms of cube, or volume. OK, so this finishes the steps of the different processes in warehouse operations, from receiving to put away to store to pick to check, pack, and ship.
