Week 7, Lesson 1 · Video 3

OK. Let's solve some problems. The motivating example we use throughout this entire lesson is rotisserie chickens. Now, rotisserie chickens are some of the most profitable products that any supermarket sells, and they're also really delicious. They're prepared ahead of time, and they have to be kept warm throughout the day. They can only be sold the day that they're roasted. What typically happens is anything that's left over, they'll use that meat in salads or other prepared foods. So now we know, for this example, the amount or the demand requested each day, not just sold, but requested, because customers have to ask for them at the deli counter. So we know that true demand, not just what was sold. That's an important feature. And so we're going to answer three questions. First, how many chickens do I have to roast each day to make sure I'm meeting 90% of the demand. In other words, that I stock out no more than 10% of the time. What's the probability of if I stock out, if I make x chickens, and I'll use a different number there depending on the distribution. And, finally, how many chickens do I expect to sell each day, given that I have a certain number that I roasted, and how many do I expect to be short or stock out. So we're going to solve this six different times. And each time we're going to make a different assumption of what the demand looks like. The first distribution we're going to use is known as the empirical distribution. And this simply means what actually happened. So, here, in the chart, I have an example of 180 days of sales. And I show in the first column the number of chickens that were demanded. And the second column is the number of days that that happened. So we see that six chickens were demanded a total of 20 days. So if we see that six chickens, that happened 20 times over 180 days, or about half a year. So from this I can chart this in a spreadsheet and, hopefully, you can do this, and I see what my distribution looks like. And let's say I want to use this distribution going forward. I assume that his-- history is going to repeat itself. So empirical means what you actually observed. So from this I can create the probability of the number of chickens demanded each day, and that's simply taking that number, say two, dividing it by the number of days, 180, and that gives me 2.2%. Now the next column is the cumulative probability. And that simply sums up. So, for example, if there were six chickens demanded, the probability that I'll have up to six chickens demanded is going to be 30%. That's simply the sum of all the individual probabilities from zero to six. So the probability and the cumulative probability, these are things we're going to use throughout this lesson. So from this data I can figure out the average, or the mean, and that's going to be simply multiplying-- let me just clean this up just a little bit here. There we go. It's just simply summing up the probability that something happened, 0.6 times the number one plus 2.2 times two, plus 1.1 times three, and so forth. And that gives me the mean. Now, I will sometimes call this the expected value, or the average. Sometimes I'll call it mu. Sometimes I'll say it's ex, I'll write it that way. It means the same thing. It's just the expected value, the average, the [? expectancy ?] the observation times the probability of that observation happening. We can also figure out the standard deviation. And that's simply taking each observation, subtracting off that mean, or average, squaring it, multiplying it by the probability that it occurred, that p sub i, then summing that for all of them, and then taking the square root. Then that'll give you about 3.59 or 3.6 chickens per day. So now I know the average number of chickens and the standard of deviation, and I can figure these out in spreadsheets. I give you the spreadsheet formulas there. But, hopefully, you're very comfortable with this. But what we want to do is answer these three questions. So question one, how many chickens do I need to roast such that my probability of stocking out is less than 10%? Well, this is easy. Once I have the cumulative probability table, I just want to go down-- let me just put this out, and I say, OK. If I want to stock out less than 10% of the time, that means I need to have one minus .1, or 90% of the demand covered. So what number of chickens covers my demand 90%? 13. So it's pretty easy. So I just look for how many chickens it takes to make sure I cover 90% of the demand, which is one minus 0.1, or the probability of stocking out. Second question. What's the probability of stocking out if I only roast eight chickens? So let me clean this up a little bit. So-- OK. I did eight chickens. So that's here. So what does that tell me? Well, that's covering 53.3% of the demand. In other words, there's a 53.3% probability that I'll have demand of eight or less. So what's my probability of stocking out? It's one minus 0.533, or 0.467. So I will stock out 46.7% of the time on average. All right. So those ones are the easy ones because you can just use the tables. Now, let's get into the expected units sold. Let's think about this. So how many chickens will I sell if I have eight? So I have eight, that's how many chickens I decide to roast. Now, let's think about it. If demand is less than eight, so anywhere up here, how many chickens will I sell? Well, I'll sell the number that's actually demanded, because I have eight there. One person shows up and asks for it, I will sell one. If six people do, I'll sell six. So, if the demand is less than eight, I will sell the number demanded. If demand is greater than eight, in other words, everything down here, if people-- if nine people ask, or 20 people ask, then how many will I sell? Exactly eight. So we have to treat this in two cases, when demand is less than the amount I have, and when demand exceeds what I have. So the expected sold the first term, I'm highlighting right there, is from one to eight, and I'm just doing that expected value. The probability of it happening times the value. So that's going to be zero times zero, right? Because the probability that I sell none is zero. Plus one times .006, plus two times .0212, all the way up to eight times .128. And I just converted the percentages into decimals here. So that covers that first up to eight, demand being up to eight. The second-- let me just clean this up just a tad. There we go. I'm going to say, OK. If I sell nine, the demand is nine, how many will I sell? I will sell eight. What's the probability of that happening? 8.9%. If 10 people show up, or demand for 10, how many will I sell? I'll sell eight. And that probability is 10%, or 0.1. So for all of these probabilities, how many am I selling? Eight. So you sum these two up and you get 6.93. I'm going to sell on average 6.93 chickens per day if I have eight there. Because some of the time my demand will be less than that, sometimes it will be more than that. Now, on the flip side, what is my expected number that I'll be short? And here, I'm going to do the exact same thing. Let's clean this up just a tad. Getting very messy. There we go. OK. So, now, how many will I stock out? Well, thinking about it, if I have demand less than eight, how many am I going to stock out? Zero. So, for this first eight, my probability of stocking out is zero. How about if more people show up? Let's say nine chickens are demanded. How many will I stock out? Nine minus what I have, eight, which is one. So the first, up to the amount that I have, the first eight, it's going to be zero times what the probability is, so it'll just be zero. But for anything beyond that, I'm actually taking the expected value of what my demand is minus what I have, [? err ?] eight. So it's just the difference. So that's going to be-- if nine's demanded, it's nine minus eight times 0.89. If 10 show up, it's going to be 10 minus 8, or two, times 10% right-- right here, and so forth, all the way up to 20. 20 minus eight is 12, and the probability is .011. So I add all of those up. Essentially, I'm looking for-- if I have eight and my demand is greater than that, subtract eight from that number, and what's that expected value? And if you sum that all up, it's 1.75 chickens. The interesting thing that you should note is that the expected number of chickens I sell, plus the number of expected chickens that I'm short, will equal the expected demand. So 6.93 plus 1.75 equals 8.68, which is what our expected number of chickens sold was based on the demand distribution. We'll spend a lot more time on this. If it's confusing, that's OK. We'll keep going, we'll give you lots of practice problems. It's one of the more complicated aspects about inventory management and inventory planning is determining expected unit short and expected units sold. We'll spend a lot of time there. OK. So let's wrap up this segment by comparing empirical, which we just did, distributions versus theoretical. Empirical distributions, awesome. They're tempting. You have the exact data. But think about it, you'd have to have all of this data for each SKU. Exactly how many were sold. And this also assumes that next year we'll follow this distribution exactly. So, theoretical distributions, on the other hand, the downside is their name, to be honest. So if someone says, oh, it's a theoretical distribution, that means it's not really real, that's not true. But it has that-- that aura. The nice thing about theoretical distributions, they require much less data. In fact, for a lot of these distributions, all I need to give is the average and the standard deviation. Or the min and the max. Or the min, the max, and the mode. Three pieces of information for each SKU, rather than their complete history. That's huge. And that's one of the reasons why we mainly use theoretical demand distributions. It also allows us to focus on the structure, not the exact observations. And so this makes it for a more robust assumption. So we will almost always use theoretical distributions. On some projects I've used the empirical but, generally, you want to find out what theoretical distribution fits your demand, and then use that. It makes life a lot easier. And every inventory planning system that I know of uses a theoretical distribution. So that's what we're going to do next for the rest of the lesson.
