Week 3, Lesson 2 · Video 2

OK. Let's dive into causal analysis. So when you develop a causal model, what you're really saying is that I think demand is correlated with some known and measurable environmental factor or factors. Now, we say "causal models," but it's really a correlation. We should really probably call them "correlation models." And I'll explain why in a few minutes, but what we're saying here is demand. We have some understanding of what is driving it, and so these environmental factors have to be known. I need to know them at the time when I'm making my forecast, not after the fact. And they have to be measurable. I have to be able to put them into a model, and so the format is going to look very familiar to you. You're going to say demand in this-- we're going to call it y, the dependent variable-- is a function of some other variables-- x1, x2-- and these are the independent variables. So let's give you some examples. Disposable diapers. If you're going to forecast demand of disposable diapers for a region, a city, a state, a district-- whatever-- then you might think, well, what would drive that? And you think it might be a function of the number of births. Obviously, if there are no kids, then you probably don't need disposable diapers. Also, it might be a function of the household income. So you can think of these factors as potentially driving the demand for disposable diapers. Another example. In this case, macaroni and cheese-- something that's heavily promoted by stores and by manufacturers. So we can think, for this promoted item, that the demand for it might be a function of the discount-- how much you're lowering the price-- the placement in the store. Do you put it on an end cap? Do you put it really high? Do you put it right at eye level, and advertisements that you ran? In fact, here at MIT, we've done a number of different studies to look at the effect of these different factors on demand during a promotion. And so you can see that the discounted price will have a huge effect on the demand-- hopefully, a positive effect. Right? As I decrease the demand-- decrease the price, I expect the demand to go up. And one other example that we got from experience is the idea of repair parts. Repair parts for cars are really a function of the weather, the snow, the probability of having accidents, which increase dramatically as you have bad weather conditions. And this is really repair parts like for side doors and things like that. So any time you think you understand what is driving demand or might have an influence on demand, then it might make sense to use a causal model. We've actually already used these in SC1x. When we looked at trying to-- on exponential smoothing, when we're initializing the conditions for the Holt-Winter model where we have level trend and seasonality, remember we have removed the seasonality and I wanted to estimate the initial level and trend? So I had this data, and I used regression. I didn't talk too much about it, but I used ordinary least squares regression to develop this initial estimate. And all we're doing is fitting the observed data into a linear equation. And so you have these observed data, the observed demand, and the observed time period-- the x. And from that, I estimate my beta factors. And so I end up with this predictive model, which is saying the expected value of y-- the demand-- given the x values-- in this case, the time period, that's going to be equal to my estimate beta 0-- my level-- plus beta 1 times the time period, x, where beta 1 is my trend or my slope. So the relationship is in a linear model. The data-- x1, y1-- are the observed pairs, and we try to find those beta coefficients that get the best fit. And the best fit is the square of the error terms, and those error terms are the unaccounted or unexplained portion of the model-- also called the "residuals." And we have a strong assumption for these error terms in that they're assumed to be independent and identically distributed normally with a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of some sigma. Now, the mean needs to be 0 because, if not, then the forecast is biased. If the error terms, if the average of those is not 0, that means I'm biasing positively or negatively for my forecast. So back to the initialization that I had, I came up with this linear model. And just to give an example, if I look at the observed demand for period 97, that was 204. Now, for period 97, the expected value using that line that I developed would be 188.4. And all that the residual is the difference between the two, or 15.6. So this observed, there's a residual for every pair of observed and an estimated demand period. So let's do an example, and let's go through this. Let's say I have monthly iced coffee sales. I have a coffee shop. It's located near a university, and I'm trying to forecast how many cups of iced coffee I should sell each month. My data consists of these six columns. I have the demand in column A. That's cups per month. Time period is in column B. Notice, I just numbered these sequentially from the first time period to the 24th, so I have two years worth of data. Column C is the average temperature in Fahrenheit. Column D tells me the year. It's year 1 or year 2. The month-- January, February, March, and so forth. And then the last column, column F, tells me whether the school was in session or not. So let's say this is my data. I'm going to develop a first causal model, and I'm going to say, you know what? What's really driving it is there's some level and then there's some trends. So I'm going to go and do a very simple model here. And so what I'm saying is that my demand is going to be my y variable, and my x variable is going to be my time period starting with January in year 1 being time period 1. And so what I'm saying is the demand will look something like this where I have this beta term, this intercept, that happens at time equals 0. And then every additional month beyond that, I'm going to increase sales or decrease sales depending on how the model comes out of beta 1. So what I'm not going to do is show you a tool how to use this. We did that in SC0x. If you have never seen regression before, though, please go to the recitation-- it's an optional recitation-- for this week where we talk through different tools of how to do regressions. But mostly, we should have already seen how to use a regression so far. If you haven't, though, stop this video. Go to the recitation so you can play along with us. All right. So I developed this model. I ran a regression, and here my results. And so if I look at this just really quickly, I look at the adjusted R-squared and I see that it's 0.776. Pretty good. I can also look and see, for each of the individual coefficients, what their values are. And what's more important, I look at the p-value to see how statistically significant they are. And these are both very strong. So what does this do for me for a forecast? Well, I have an estimation model now. It's saying my demand is going to be equal to 3,240-- that's that beta 0 term that I estimated-- plus 53 times each month. So I'm assuming that I'm selling 53 more cups of coffee every month. So that's a trend, a level and a trend. Interpreting this again, 77% on R-squared. Pretty good. Remember, always look at the adjusted R-squared. But the beta 0 in the beta 1 terms are pretty significant. They have p-value less than 0.0001. Generally, you want to look for things lower than 0.01, and so these are very significant. And so we can say that this is a pretty nice model. It captures level and trend quite well. And note that all the data is being used, and we'll talk more about that in a second. So one of the great things about causal models or regression in general is that you can include other factors that we typically don't include in exponential smoothing, which just looks at patterns. And so for example, let's build off of our previous model, and we want to build in addition to level and trend. We want to say you know what? I think the temperature of that month-- the predicted or the estimated temperature based on historical values-- will tell me something about the sales and my working hypothesis-- because you should always have a working hypothesis-- is that higher temperatures lead to more iced coffee sales. So our model will look something like this. Except when the temperature is higher, we expect maybe higher sales. Temperature goes down, we expect lower sales. So it's hard to show on this two-dimensional chart, in fact, what we've added is a third dimension. That is temperature. | Let me clean up my writing. There we go. So it's hard to show in a graph. It's really three-dimensional space, and it's a series of points. So I formulated this model, ran it a regression, and here's what I got. So let's talk about it. First thing I always do for a model, look of the goodness of it. Didn't change. So it's really not helping explain much more. I look at the coefficients. Did they change much? Well, the intercept term and the time or the trend term didn't change much, so they're still significant looking at the p-value. But look at the temperature term. OK. The coefficient came out negative 0.27. So it's saying, as temperature goes up, my sales will go down. Doesn't make sense. Maybe it's something counterintuitive. So then I look and I always like to look at the upper and lower confidence intervals, and notice one's negative, one's positive. So I'm crossing 0, so I know right away this will not be significant. Right? Because remember, our null hypothesis here is that the coefficient is equal to 0, and we're trying to disprove that null hypothesis. And so obviously, if my confidence interval contains 0, it's going to be very hard to disprove. So look over at the p-value, and it's exceptionally high. So what is this telling me? Telling me that the temperature really doesn't seem to have much of an impact. There's not much correlation between temperature and sales. So we could build other models here. In fact, I could include non-continuous variables. So for example, let's say I want to include seasonality because maybe it's not necessarily the historical temperature for a month but that my sales in December, January, and February might be different. So what do I do? I create this dummy variable, this xw, and it says it's going to be equal to 1 if the month is either December, January, or February and 0 otherwise. So I can develop my model. And then what this will do, the coefficient for beta w will tell me what the increase or decrease in sales are for those months in absolute terms. So my hypothesis going in would be winter months, lower coffee sales. So I would expect, if I ran that model, I'd come up with a negative sign for that coefficient. I could do something else I could also throw in school. Remember, we have a variable that indicates whether school is in session or not, so I could throw that in as well. And again, set it equal to 1 if school is in session; 0 otherwise. So these would be capturing the effect of that school being in session, and I really don't know what that would do. I would guess it would increase iced coffee sales, but these are the type of things you can do. There's all sorts of different ways you can include different causal factors into a forecasting model, and that's the beautiful thing that these causal models do that exponential smoothing does not. They only include these patterns, so regression allows me to bring in other factors. That's why it's widely used in certain areas. We'll see how can we use it in, for example, new product introductions and other areas. So let's wrap up our causal analysis here. What did we do? Well, we did regressions, and they simply find correlations between a single dependent variable-- that y. And in our case, for forecasting, that'll be your demand and one or more independent variables-- x1, x2-- and these can be continuous variables. You can use dummy variables. There's a lot of stuff here. You could look back at your regression notes to see the types of things you can build in to one of these models. The coefficients are estimated by minimizing the sum of the squares of the errors. So why is this important? Well, let me draw a little seesaw, and so I've got a seesaw here. And I've got someone sitting here. And if I put someone over here that's a lot bigger, heavier weight, what's it going to do? It's going to have much more impact. And so why am I saying this? Well, by minimizing the sum of the squares of the errors, we're placing a lot of emphasis on the outliers. The further something is away from the expected value, it's going to have more influence on the model. What does this mean? Pay attention to your outliers. Always look back at the residuals from your observations, and examine the ones that are really large-- either positive or negative. And you want to get in those. Maybe they're accurate, but those are the things that will be really influencing your model. Always test your model. I always like to look at the goodness of fit with the adjusted R-squared. Look at the significance of each of the coefficients as well. So warnings. We call these "causal models," but we all know that we're looking at correlations and correlation is not causation. And so you need to avoid the temptation of overfitting your data. It's a siren call for a lot of first-time modelers to try to get your R-squared as high as possible. Right? And so you want to make sure you're not just really, really tightly fitting historical data, and so think about the overall purpose of the model. Don't get caught into the need to maximize your R-squared. And so a question that students always ask is, "Well, why don't I always use regression instead of exponential smoothing because regression is so much easier? I just press a button, and it just comes out. Exponential smoothing is tricky. I've got all that bookkeeping." Well, make sure what we're doing here. For regression, I'm using all of the data, and I'm treating all the data equally. And so I'm keeping the data from two years ago. I'm trying that just as equally as yesterday's data. Exponential smoothing weights it according to time, so the value decays over time. So you've got to ask yourself which is more accurate. And so the regression, like I said, treats all data equally. And then the other big difference is the amount of data required. A beautiful thing about exponential smoothing is you don't have to keep that much data because it gets encapsulated in that historic-- in your last estimate term. For regression, I've got to keep all of the data. Still, it's a very powerful tool-- widely used when you think that there are some underlying factors influencing your demand.
