Week 2, Lesson 3 · Video 6: Wrap Up & Key Points

OK. What were the key points from this lesson? Well, all that we did was introduced exponential smoothing models. And we introduced two types. First is the simple model or simple smoothing, and this only looked at when we had a level. We only assumed the only trend we saw was a level period or stationary demand. Then we also looked at the Holt Model, which assumes both a level and a trend with whether it's upward or downward, and what we looked at is linear trends. And so if you look at these, they're very similar and for the forecasting equation for the simple model or for just level, it's simply going to have this alpha, which again is the smoothing coefficient, the higher the alpha is between 0 and 1, the more you're going to weight the new information, which in this case is the new observation. And 1 minus alpha tells you how much you're going to weight the old information. And in this case, it's x hat t minus 1 for t, which is essentially the forecast from yesterday for today. So it's balancing alpha times my most recent observation plus 1 minus alpha times my most recent forecast. So that's the whole smoothing. And then when we introduced level and trend, you're doing the same thing. All that we're doing now is introducing a new term. This b term, which is the smoothing term or the estimate for the trend. And it's going to be equal to beta, which is smoothing factor between 0 and 1 times my new information, which is just the difference between my two estimated levels plus 1 minus beta times my most recent estimate of what the trend should be. So again, it's new information balanced with old information. And you're smoothing factors will tell you how much you're going to weight the new and the old. It's just a linear combination, because the alpha in 1 minus alpha and beta in one minus beta, it sums to one obviously. So after we did this, we looked at some other smoothing models. And you can see this is a very easy way to incorporate new information with old, and we used it to track mean square error. And so we use this omega term to try to balance out what the mean square error will be to give us a more consistent or conservative estimate for what the mean square error would be. So it's not as volatile, jumping up and down with each month. And then we also looked at dampen trends. And for damped trends, this is the idea that a trend does not go on forever unchanged. And in practice, they tend to taper off. And so we use this phi, and we showed how that can be used to damp the trend, especially this is very useful when I'm looking at longer term estimates or forecasts. OK. But overall, what are the core concepts from the exponential smoothing? The big one is that the value of information degrades over time. So the older the observation, the less value, the less weight I will put on it. And that smoothing term tells me how much I'm going to put on. And then the other is that it's a balance of old and new information, whether it's looking at the information on the level or information on the trend or anything else. We're looking at a balance, because we want to say, how much do I weight that new information and how much I weigh it against the old information? All right, so that's it. Hopefully, if you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, please use the discussion. Don't be confused like Lexi the dog. Use the discussion.
