Week 4, Lesson 1 · Video 3

Let's talk now about the different assumptions we have to make when we develop inventory replenishment models. Because as you can guess, depending on the situation, you might have a different type of policy. And you might have to use a different type of model. So it really all depends on the situation or the environment that you're facing. So when we develop a replenishment model, we have to think what the objective is. And the objective is to find an optimal policy for managing the inventory. So the whole purpose for developing a replenishment model is to develop a policy that the decision maker can use. And so we can think of a policy as consisting of two big pieces. One is how much they're going to order. And this is always called Q. And so the quantity that I'm going to order. But then the next big component is when do we order. And so we can think of it as being a time based decision. So I order every t time units. I order once a week, once every 17 days, once every hour, whatever that time unit is. Or I can think about a quantity level. I order a replenishment when my inventory is below 200 units or it's below 1,000 units. And there are other ways you can think about this. You could even think about combinations of these, where every week I check and if the inventory is below a certain level, then I place an order. So the policy is essentially going to tell me how much to order and when I should do it. It's a set of rules or instructions for a decision maker to make. And that's really all we're going to focus on. But as you will see, it gets complex, because the situations can be very, very different depending on what your environment is. So let's go over this big list of assumptions. So this is kind of daunting, but let me just go over them individually. So the first set of assumptions you make and probably the most critical is the demand. So if I look at the demand, there are many different ways you can think about it. Is it constant demand? Is it mainly staying roughly steady state the same? Or is it highly variable? Do we know what the demand's going to be, or is at random? Is there are a variable size to it? Is it stochastic? And is that demand continuous or does it come in discrete lumps? And so we can think of these different ways of demand can manifest itself. And each one of these will dictate a slightly different way of coming up with an inventory policy. Then we look at lead time. This is the time it takes when I place the order to when it arrives. Initially we're going to make this simple assumption that it's instantaneous. It just shows up right away, which isn't very realistic. But we'll use that as a starting point. But we can also think of the lead time as being a constant amount-- it always takes seven days to come-- or some kind of variable amount. It's in between seven and 10 days depending. And so it can be either deterministic or stochastic, you know whether I always know what it's going to be or it might change and has a distribution. And we can even look at the case, and we will a little later, whether your lead time isn't something being delivered to you but you're replenishing it yourself. So you're making it yourself as your replenishing, you're fulfilling your demand. So it's kind of internally replenished. So we'll talk more about that. We also look at the dependence of items. Does each item that you're managing the inventory for, are they all independent? Doe they have no bearing on each other? Or are they slightly correlated? So that if I am holding more inventory of type A, maybe I need more of type B. And so are they correlated at all or even are the indentured? And this means that if I, for example, want to order a bicycle, if I want to have a bicycle inventory, I know I'm going to need two wheels. And so they're kind of indentured. And we'll talk more about that when we talk about MRP systems. Next big distinction or the assumption I have to make is my review time. Am I constantly watching my inventory level? That's a continuous policy. Or do I only check it periodically? And so we'll talk more about this, what a periodic system is. But again, a big different distinction in how you develop those models. The number of locations, am I managing just one inventory location? Or are there multiple, separate locations? Or is it a multi echelon situation, where one inventory in one location is feeding into another set of locations? So they're tied together, that one flows to the other. And so that's a very different situation versus one location. So that's another assumption we're going to have to make. Then we also have to make an assumption on the capacity we have. Do we have unlimited capacity? Or do we have some kind of constraint on how much I can process, or how much I can hold? We have to make some kind of assumptions on the discounts. If I buy a certain quantity, do I get a reduced rate, or does it not matter? And so I can think of different types of discounts whether it's all units, whether it's incremental, or whether it's a one time buy. And we'll talk more about these in another few lectures. I also have to make an assumption what happens to excess demand. The first assumption we're going to make is that nothing happens. So you can't have it. There will not be a shortage. But we can also make assumptions you know if all the orders are back ordered, if you lose the orders, their substitution. So there's a whole lot of assumptions you can make on what happens when you have stock outs. You also need to make assumptions on the perishability. So think of a fresh fruit, highly perishable, so you can't plan on holding it for a year, because it will perish over time. So we can make assumptions there. Some assumption could be that there is no perishability that the product are, say, bricks, and they really don't perish over time. They're pretty good. Or we could make assumption that they perish uniform with time or some kind of non-linear function. And each of these affects the type of model, the type of policy we want to enact. Another set of assumptions is how far are we planning. We'll talk a little later about single period models where you're going to try to determine how much inventory to hold for just one selling period, think of selling newspapers each day. You can't sell yesterday's newspaper tomorrow. It doesn't make sense. So it's a single period. You might want to think about finite periods, where I'm planning say over the next 12 months for a manufacturing run. Or you can look at infinite planning horizon. This is where you think you hit a steady state. And so you're going to plan for a continuous steady state infinite window. And we'll talk more about that. That will be our first assumption we make in the next lesson. We also need to make assumptions on how many items are we actually managing. Is it just one at a time that we're managing or do we need to find a way to manage multiple items at one time? And then finally, what's the form of the product? Is it a single stage product that we're trying to manage, or is it multi stage, in other words other components that are being put together? And so as you could imagine, it gets much more complicated as you move from a single stage kind of product to this multi stage. This is a big laundry list. I don't expect you to understand all of them. But this kind of lays the road map of how we're going to dive in and develop more and more complex inventory models to create policies that can be used for many different situations. So that finishes up this first lesson. And so if you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, I encourage you to use the discussion.
