Week 10, Lesson 2 · Video 1

PROFESSOR: In this video, I want to provide an introduction to case studies and also describe how we can do this in a MOOC course. So let's talk about the approach. First thing, what is a case study? All that it is is a description of an actual situation, usually administrative or business oriented, and it involves a decision that has to be made or a problem that has to be solved. Now usually, this is made by a protagonist that's introduced in the case. So you're being asked as the learner to step into the shoes of someone and to solve a problem. Now why do we do these? They're great ways to allow a student to experience decision making in a more realistic situation. Because typically, if I give you a problem, I'm going to give you the data, it'll be clean, I'll give you exactly what you need and tell you what technique to use, because we're trying to teach you a methodology or a certain approach. In real life, that doesn't happen. And so case studies are way where we can dip our toe in the water of reality, right? So we'll introduce some gray areas that's a little uncertain what the real objective is. I might give you partial or incomplete information. I might subject you to different human behavior because there might be different pressures. People, how they react will be included in the case study. And there are other non-quantitative factors. So these are very different from the more methodological problems and techniques that we've been doing so far. Another reason why we do case studies, it demonstrates how problem solving technique can be applied in practice. It's not like you're just going to run an EOQ and you have an answer. There's other things involved with solving a problem in practice, and that's what case studies help us do. So the objectives of a case study are to one, learn how to evaluate a problem, learn how to make decisions, and learn how to present and argue a point of view. So this is why people use case studies. Now, the approach is pretty common. There's certain components you see in a case study. Usually they're written up in several pages, 10, 20 pages, and there's an opening or an introduction to try to get you involved in the situation, you get some background information on the company or the organization, and then you're presented with a problem or a decision to be made. And then you have might have alternatives and a conclusion. So a lot of times, it's like snapshot of what a business is doing, and you've got to kind of drive and figure out what you need to do to improve the situation. The basic approach, or the classic approach for this is to read through the whole case, look over the exhibits, get a sense of the numbers, because a lot of times it's like a little bit like a mystery novel or a detective novel because there are hints in everything in there. Everything isn't presented clearly upfront and said hey, here's all the information you need and nothing else. Sometimes you might be given more information that you need or the wrong information, because this is more like real life. So you look those things over, you reread thoroughly, you develop alternatives, and you summarize and justify the decision that you're going to make. Because in a case study, you're always asked to make a decision. That's what they're all there for. So traditionally, we teach case studies in a live setting. We use something called a Socratic method. And this is where you let the students do more of the talking. You try to pull out the answers from different people. And so in face to face setting, you're probably in a classroom like you see here in the picture. This is from our boot camp that we run up at MIT. You're sitting in kind of a circular area and everyone has name tags in front of them, and the whole idea is you get people to discuss and interact. And that's the Socratic method. It's the best way to teach a case study. However, we can't do that in a MOOC, right? I'm recording this on a video, you're going to be watching this and interacting with this at different times. We're all asynchronous here. So what are we going to do that's different? Because we still want the essence of the case study. So what we're going to do, instead of giving you the case all at once, we'll do it in segments, right? Because I want to pace you through it and give you different information and make you react to that. So each segment is going to consist of a document describing some new case details and information. You're going to have some interactive exercises. This is where the platform is really helpful here. We'll try to stretch it out. Some things will be quantitative, some will be more qualitative. We'll have discussion forums for you to debate issues back and forth. And then we'll have a short wrap up video. I'll come back and we'll talk about one possible solution approach. Because that's the thing about case studies-- there isn't always one and only one solution. There might be multiple ways to solve a problem. That's what make these so much fun. All that I ask you to do is please complete the exercises before you watch those wrap up or solution videos at the end. But that's how we approach cases. I think you're going to have a lot of fun. You can do these online and you get a lot out of it. It's always even better when you can do them in person, because then you get the discussion and live discussion back and forth. All right, well, I hope you enjoy the case studies. Let's get started.
