Week 9, Lesson 2 · Video 3

So now let's talk about transit time reliability. And when you talk about transit time reliability, we all know what this means, because we all take planes, trains, boats, and we drive cars, so we know that the time it takes for one trip one day is going to take a different amount of time the other day. It's never going to be constant. And so there's going to be some variability. And so the question is how do we incorporate that into the total logistics cost equations that we've been working with? Well, it relates to some other bigger questions that we want to ask about reliability itself. For example, there are three big questions that we want to ask if you're within a firm. One is what is the definition of reliability? Do you have a tight definition of it? Because it's one of those words that means different things to different people. Then we want to look at what are the sources of unreliability of variability. And then, finally, how can you improve the situation if you've identified where there are sources of variability? And so as you look at these, one of the things we dig into reliability, you see that there's really two dimensions of it. The first one is credibility. Essentially, did the carrier do what they said they were going to do? Did the carrier reserve the slots for containers, as they agreed to? If they don't, it's sometimes called bumping, when they bump a container off of what should be on a ship, or rejections. Did the carrier stop it all the ports they agreed to in the order they agree to? Or did they skip some ports? Sometimes that's done to improve service or some other containers. Maybe there isn't much going to one of the ports, so they skip it to catch up on their run. Do the carrier load all containers committed or do they do what's known as a cut-and-run? So the first dimension is credibility. Did the carrier do what they said they were going to do? The second is consistency. So how consistent was the performance? Was the actual transit time, was it very similar to each other? And how close was it to the quoted schedule? And so we've done a number of projects. And one of the projects we did up here with a global manufacturer was to look at their global transportation. And we focused in on the variability of transit time at the lack of reliability. And one of the findings we came across is that they measured schedule consistency differently. Depending on the different regions and divisions, they had different metrics. So let me show you some of those. So one group compared actual transit time to the contract time. So this contract transit time is what the carrier agreed to when they set up the contract initially. And they said, you know what, if it's within two days, then it's reliable. So they said, as long as it's within two days of what they agreed to. Another group in the same company said what they look at is, instead of comparing it to the contract time, they looked at the average of last six months. And they said, you know what, if you stayed within one standard deviation of what we showed in the last six months, then you're good to go. So their metric of reliability was essentially within one standard deviation of the average of last six months shipments. Another group in the same company compared actual transit time to the published schedule. It was scheduled arrival days. And as long as it was within two days of what they said on their scheduled deliveries, that was OK. And then a fourth group said they looked at the tightness. So they said, OK, what is the actual transit times? And if it's within two days of the mode, or the most common observation, then that was on time. That was reliable. And so for different metrics for measuring reliability. One company. So this is one of the challenges that we face. And so one of the first steps is be consistent in how you measure consistency. So then when we delve in a little further to this and some other companies, we made three observations. And these all relate to transit variability, or lack of reliability. The first observation was that contract reliability in procurement does not always match contract reliability in operations. What do we mean? Well, look at this chart. And on the horizontal axis is the contracted transit time, in days. And every dot here is a shipper's lane. It's one origin destination pair for a port for one company. Now, this is multiple companies in here as well. Then on the vertical axis, is the average actual transit time for that lane. So for example, let's pick one. This lane, this trade lane, it said its origin destination port was contracted to take about 17 days. And on average it took about 30. So if all of the shipments here tended to do as well in actuality as they were contracted, then they would be-- let's see if I can do this-- they would be on this blue line. They'd be on the 45 degree. Right, if I contracted for 20, then it took 20. But where are they actually? Well, they a are actually all up here in the worst area. So this is actually a regression line for those. So what is this saying? That most carriers perform much worse in practice that what they are contracted to. And you could say that that's always going to happen. But what's interesting is the procurement guys, the guys who set the contracts are down here. And this is what they're seeing versus the operational guys. And this is what they see. So these two groups do not always talk. Sometimes they're not even co-located in the same city or in the same time zone. So sometimes the people doing the contracting, the Centralized Procurement, might do for the entire company, while the Operations is decentralized. And so what we found here, there was a big disconnect in what actually happened than what was contracted to happen. And this matters, because these guys down here doing the contracting will do the contract for the next year. And sometimes there's no feedback. So that was our first observation. There's a big gap here in reliability perceptions from Contracting and then the actual Operations. And you can see that everyone in that zone, that they're doing worse than the Contract. So the second observation we made is that contract reliability differs across the different segments in your route. So remember when we talked about for a global shipment, there's an origin, and it goes to an origin port, sits in a port for a little while. Then it goes to another port across the water, sits in that port for a little while, and then it goes to its final destination. So five segments. And what we did here, I'm looking at the dwell time or the waiting time within the origin port-- the time it goes from port to port. And then the destination port dwell. And I have the same time here for the contracted-- what it said for contract time, how long they said they would sit in the origin port, how long they would say they would take to cross the ocean, and how long it would take to get through the destination port. And if you notice, the port-to-port transit time, it's not that bad. It's pretty close to that 45-degree angle we talked about. Where's the problem? The origin port. And to a lesser extent, the destination port. So a lot of the problems with reliability actually occur at the origins, at the intersections, not the port-to-port. What's interesting, if you talk to a lot of carriers, when they measure their on-time performance, where do they measure from? Origin port to destination port. This is similar to what the United States Postal Service used to do to measure on time. They measured it from post office to post office, not all the way through. So what we're concerned about, our containers, so we are concerned about the whole time, not just the individual segments. But what this is saying, this observation, is that the reliability and variability differs across those different segments. OK, so that's the second observation. Let me just clean that up a little bit. The third observation we made was a most transit variability occurs in inland transportation of the ports. And this kind of echoes to what we've just seen, but this shows a little more contrast. So here I've those five segments, right? This is the port-to-port ocean transit, destination Port Dwell, and then finally off to the destination itself. And what I have in each number, each cell here is the coefficient of variation, which is the standard deviation of the transit time divided by the mean. And each row is a different trade lane. This is from Asia to North America, South America--North America, Europe to North America, and North America to Europe. And if I look at this, the lowest CV always falls in the Ocean Transportation. That's the port-to-port, or the water segment. The worst, with the CV over 1, which is really inconsistent, usually at the origin landside. And then you see at the destination, there's a little bit higher as well. But the real problem happens here at the origin landside segment. So what do we take away from these three observations and these definitions of consistency? Well, the first thing is when you're thinking about transportation, how that impacts the whole supply chain, you have to think of end-to-end. Just as we did cost and end, you're going to have to think about the time-and-end, because they will have different impacts. And you care about how the container moves, not just how the ship moves, because you have to look at the whole flow. And so that's the takeaway here. And in our next lesson, we're going to talk about how you handle and plan for that lead time variability.
