Week 10, Lesson 1 · Video 10

OK, just a few more comments about hubs, terminals, and networks that you need for the many-to-many network. Whenever you have a hub, there's obviously pros and cons. So some of the advantages of having a hub, it enables you to do that many-to-many distribution. It reduces the cost through fewer conveyances or vehicles that are needed. And they have greater utilization because you're combining them on more. It gives you a higher level of service-- that's LOS-- with the same or fewer resources. So you can do more with less. And it allows you extended reach. I can reach into smaller volume and more distant locations. That's a real benefit there. Downsides, we talked about some of these. There's an additional cost. We didn't even figure that in yet. There's a higher level to circuity. The product is traveling a longer distance. There's no shorter distance than direct point to point. Whenever you go through a hub or anything like that, you're adding distance. You're also adding touches. And so whenever you touch a product, you have a probability of damaging the product. And so a lot of times, you want to avoid touches, going through a facility where it gets sorted. This impacts service levels. You might have a utilization loss as well. And so some of the economic factors you have to think about are the relative [? orders ?] and destination demand versus the distances-- rather, versus the hub distances, right? You want to make sure that it's actually relieving some of those distances, the size of the vehicles, the conveyances, the demand patterns, and the location of the hubs. What's interesting is freight hubs and passenger hubs are very different. They follow different logic. Passenger hubs are where people are, right? Freight hubs are at the edge of the city. And they're further away. So it's just a-- because a lot of these concepts will apply for both. But freight tends to be located a little farther away. So sometimes you have these operations. And you might have something coming into a hub or a terminal, but you don't want it to actually go in the terminal. And so it physically travels, but it doesn't leave. And that's it stays on the conveyance or the trailer. And so the product isn't touched or handled at any intermediate points. And so, for example, in air transportation, they call it a through flight. This might have happened to you, where you land on the tarmac. Some people get off. But if you're continuing, you stay on the plane, right? You don't get handled in the airport. Less [INAUDIBLE] calls it head-loading. They put it at the front of the truck or the pup trailer, and it doesn't get touched during that. It continues on to the next leg. Railroad uses block placement. Partial has pre-packaging. For truck load direct moves, sometimes you'll have where a truck brings the trailer in. And it disconnects, and another tractor picks it up. And they kind of switch loads. They drop and swap, it's called. And then they each take each other's loads going back in the same direction. So the trailer keeps moving, right, but the drivers swap. And it does two things. One is it extends the reach that that trailer can go. But also, it gets the drivers home. They don't go the whole length of that journey. It's called a relay. So it's like the Pony Express back in the United States, where they will hand off the packages. In this case, the trailers come. The drivers switch, and they take each other's trailers back from where they came. So why would you want to do this? Why would you want to bypass hub handling? Because hub handling causes damage. It costs things. It's something you want to avoid. If you can avoid hub handling, do it. But it raises other questions. So just because I have a hub doesn't mean I always have to use it. It might make sense, for example, in this case to have a direct connection, a direct service from W2 to E1. Think of this in terms of airlines. We all travel by air. Wouldn't you rather, if you were an E1, going to W2, to not have to go through the terminal? That's like going to the Atlanta Hartsfield or DFW, or Chicago O'Hare in the United States. You'd want to go direct. Direct's always better. You don't have the chance of missing the second flight, for example. So you want to look at that. And so what would some of the considerations in freight, if you want to offer a service direct from W2 to E1 or E1 to W2. It doesn't matter. Is there demand? Is there a sufficient demand to make it there? If you add the direct, will it generate sufficient demand, right? Because if you have better service, you might attract more volume. Will the service now on the legs from W2 to the hub and E1 to the hub, will those go down? Am I just robbing Peter to pay Paul, right, I'm cannibalizing my own system? What's the effect on the hub? If I do a direct flight from W2 to E1, a direct service lane, will I take volume away from the hub? Sure. Is that a good thing or a bad thing? If it's over-congested, it's a good thing, right? I'm reducing congestion there. If it's already low, I'm even hurting its utilization even more. And you also have to do something else. And when you think about E1 or the W2 location, wherever the origin is, you now there have to make a decision. Before, you'd put everything on the truck, right? And the truck goes to the hub, and it goes on the way. Now, I've got to have people on the dock make a decision. Is this going to W2 or to one of the other locations? And they have to make that decision there. So they're now sorting. So they have to sort at that facility. Instead of putting everything on the-- everything goes to the hub, now it can go either the direct to W2 or into the hub. So it adds a little complexity at the origin, something you don't always think about. And it seems trivial. But if you add more of these, then you're making the job at the origin a little more complicated. And this happens a lot for many different reasons. Sometimes you have opportunistic. If suddenly one of your customers drops a promotion, and they have-- you know, they usually ship five pallets, and suddenly they're shipping 40, and they're all going to the same location, you bring in an opportunistic direct service. And you handle it as a truckload, as a full truckload, right? You might have a surge move. That's kind of what I said there. It's kind of where you have surge in volume, and you take advantage of it. But you almost, you might want to plan it. And so you have multiple offerings between locations. We'll talk more about that. So let's look at this, and same hub-and-spoke network. But what if there's demand between the W terminals? Some product goes from W1 to W5, for example. So I have something like this. Well, maybe I want to create a western terminal and have things come into the western terminal. And maybe I can connect that western terminal to the central hub. Maybe I want to bypass the hub. Maybe I have enough coming in from those five locations that it justifies a full truckload going from that western hub, that W, all the way down to E5. There's enough volume there to justify that leg. Or maybe I've got something different. Maybe I've got enough in the eastern coming together, right? And there's enough demand between E1 and E5 that they can connect and consolidate. And then maybe I have something going like this, where I have the W5 going to the E and then splitting up. You could see how this moves. And you could have even more possibilities. How would you solve for those? Mix it into your linear program is one way. There are other ways or algorithms out there. But setting up a network flow or a network design-- classic problem. And this is something that we talk about mathematically, the formulations in SC 0x. And in SC 2x, we use them to set up network design, supply chain network design, which is great stuff. And it's exactly solving this problem. Now, this will find the best routing. But sometimes you want to have more than one routing, right? You might want to offer this W5 to E5 through the western hub. You might want to offer one that goes straight in Western 5 to the central hub, down to Eastern 5, one going to the eastern hub, or even a direct. So you have all these different routings. Why would you want to offer these? Well, because you can charge differently. They have different levels of service. And so you have all these different offerings. And this is what most parcel carriers do. And airlines do this, too. I can get from, say, Boston to San Francisco many ways. I can have a direct. I'll pay more for that. I can go through, say, Chicago or Dallas. Or I might have some really low-cost ones where I make two or three stops. And so it's the same thing. It's generally how fast do you want to go, how many stops do you want to make? You have the same thing in freight. And so at the end of the day, this is exactly what we're doing when we are shipping shoes from Shenzhen, right? You end up with a strategic network. And in this case, I list four of the different options there. And I just made up some numbers here, the number of days it would take-- because every time you go through a hub, it takes a little longer-- what the cost would be, and the number of touches. So what you're doing is you're developing a flow, a menu that a customer can select from. And they can choose, do they want one-day service? Are they OK with four-day service? So they can make that choice. This is what you can do with hubs and terminals to make it a many-to-many network.
