Week 7, Lesson 2 · Video 8

All right, what are some of the key points from this lesson? Well, there's a bunch of them. So the first point I want you to make sure you capture is that these problems-- single period problems, news vendor problems-- are everywhere. You'll see them used for fashion items; perishable goods; fleet sizing for transportation; contracting, whether I have a primary and secondary vendor; space missions; all sorts of different applications. Whenever you need to make a firm bet, an order quantity, some kind of investment, and you're doing this in the face of uncertain demand in a single period, this is the model you want to use. It's a classic trade-off between having too much inventory and too little. Now, we called it an excess cost, c sub e. Sometimes you see this called an overage cost. And the same thing with having too little. We called it a shortage cost. Other people call it an underage cost. Same thing. And so by knowing these two costs, you can create the critical ratio. And that captures how important it is to have too little versus too much. And essentially, hopefully, this has sunk in for you guys, that really what it's saying is it's the amount of the distribution of demand that you want to capture. You want to capture the probability that the random variable will be less than that q. That's the critical ratio. And the critical ratio's all there about maximizing profit. It's not maximizing the service level. We'll talk more about that. It's maximizing the profit of that operation. So we're able to figure out the expected profitability. And if you look at this equation, it looks big and nasty, but it's really quite simple. So there are certain components. This first component is the expected amount of units that you're going to sell. Now, e sub x, the first term, is my expected demand. And this is my expected units short. And as we showed in the last lecture, the expected units short plus the expected units sold equals expected demand. So if I want to find the expected units sold, simply use that demand expectation minus the units short. So that's how many jerseys I expect to sell. This term is simply the cost, the unit cost, times the number that I order, q. And then this term, this actually tells me how many jerseys I will sell to salvage if I have a salvage value, that g. So if g is zero, then that all goes to zero. But what that q minus-- the expected units sold is telling me how many I expect to salvage. All right, so then, I want to have this last term, which is the loss function. This is expected units short. And I have that b term in case I have an additional cost for being short. So each of these terms makes sense. And the math gets a little tricky because we get into probability and different distributions. But hopefully, you can capture the big components. It's the revenue I'm bringing in and minus the cost minus the expected-- or actually plus the expected salvage value minus the additional costs for being short. And the tricky function is this last one. Students have a really hard time about the loss function, and it's really just an expectation. I'm finding the expected value of units I'll be short over and above the quantity that I have. That's why you have this x minus q, right, for deterministic and for continuous functions. And so we can tabulate this loss function for any distribution. I gave you some formulas and everything in the last lesson. And we will use the normal, the unit normal loss function quite a bit going forward in all sorts of different inventory models. So this is something you need to know. I don't expect you to memorize the equation, but that's why we give you a table where you can look it up based on the k value. Or you can calculate it using this Excel function. All right, so the other two things that you should take away were things that I really didn't stress, but I want you to realize, though. So in the last problem that we did in case 2, I believe our q star was equal to 440,149 or something like that. So if I look at that 40,000, something like here. Let me see. Something like this. Whew, that's a horrible line. Let me redraw that. All right, that's a little better. So this is q star. So let's see what that's saying. That's saying that any demand that comes in that is less than this, right-- and when is this going to happen? This is the probability when x, the demand, is less than q star. Whenever that happens, I'm going to be in stock. All is right with the world. Good things. I have all the jerseys that I need. Anytime the demand is greater than q star, this is going to happen when? When the probability, or how often, probability of x is greater than q star. And this is where I stock out. Stock out. So what we've done is we figured out how often this will happen. So how often will we be in stock? Well, it's the area under this part of the curve. How do we find that out? That was the critical ratio, right? I believe for our problem, it was, what, 77%. 77%. So this is the probability that I'll be in stock is 77%. So therefore, the probability that I will stock out is equal to 1 minus 0.77 equals 0.33. And hopefully this is getting to be second nature to you, and that's this part of the curve, everything under here. So what we've done is we figured out how often, how frequently we should expect to stock out. And even though we're maximizing our profit here, I'm stocking out a third of the time. So that means a third of each of the cycles, I'm going to stock out. So this brings up another interesting point that you'll see more of in other inventory models, is that we've now defined level of service. And the first level of service we're going to spend a lot of time talking about is cycle service level. And we'll talk more about this later. But that's essentially what is my probability of not stocking out. That's what we have here in the critical ratio. So I want to know what's the probability I'll fall on this side of the curve. The second level of service we'll use a lot of is something called item fill rate. And that's simply I want to know what percentage of the total demand that comes in is stocked out. And that's here, and that's going to be figured out by the expected units short. So these two fundamental concepts were embedded throughout our discussion in this lesson. And they're key to understanding our inventory models as we go forward. And they're all kind of come from this single period news vendor problem. All right, that's all we have. So hopefully, if you have any questions or comments or suggestions, you'll use the discussion forum. Use the quick questions. Try the practice problems. Have fun.
