Week 8, Lesson 3 · Video 1

In this lesson, I want to introduce you to the basics or the fundamentals of warehousing. Now, this is not going to be exhaustive. We're not going to cover everything about warehousing, because it could be its own course. What I want to do is give you the basics so when you go out there, you understand what the main concepts are, what the trade-offs are, and understand a little bit of what goes on between the four walls. Now, when you think of a warehouse, a lot of people think of something like this. This is the Metropolitan Storage Warehouse that's actually located right outside of MIT on Mass Ave, and it's a classic, traditional warehouse-- many stories, brick, small windows because you have boxes in there. They don't need the view. And so this is the traditional warehouse. The purpose of a warehouse is to store stuff. But then you might see a center like this, a distribution center, which is also a warehouse of sorts, but it's very different. Look at all the space it's taking up. It's meant for efficiency of flow. And so we'll talk about warehouses in general, but we'll see that warehouses differ, specifically in how they're used. And the basic things they're used for storing stuff or for flowing things. And so we'll talk about that as kind of a common theme throughout the discussion of warehouses. Let's go in the four walls. And so this is a typical large distribution center. You see along this left-hand side a bunch of dock doors. They're probably doors that are used for multi-purposes-- receiving or shipping. You see a bunch of product here that's staged for that delivery. I'm guessing that they're going to load that into the next truck. They're staging it. You can see all this put away down here in the background. All those-- one, two, three, four, five, six shelves of pallets, things on pallets. And in the foreground here, part of a material handling system, it looks like it's a carousel, where smaller items-- cases, probably-- get wrapped down, and they go all the way down to a pick line. And so we'll talk about all of this, but this is the classic view of a distribution center. Now, distribution centers can be very automated like this one, which is actually in a library where books are in there, and it's automated pick. There are no people. Something very manual like this. This is a sign shop. Then you have your inventory just kind of stacked down here. But they all have the same principles. They all have to receive, they all have to put away. You have to store things, you have to pick, order, and ship. And so all of these things kind of come together. In fact, you can look at your own refrigerator as a warehouse. And so things come in bigger units, right? You buy a gallon of milk, let's say. You're not going to buy a cup of milk at a time. You're probably going to serve yourself one at a time. So the same kind of concepts that apply to DCs and to warehouses-- some of them also apply to something that we have in our own food pantry. OK, in this lesson, I want to answer three questions. First, why do we have warehouses? Second, what are the core operational functions within that warehouse? And third, how do we assess and improve the performance? OK, so we'll spend most of the time on the second question because that's where the real meat is. But these are the three things I want to take away from this lesson. So let's get started.
