Week 8, Lesson 3 · Video 7

So let's dive a little deeper into order picking and talking about cases and eaches. And what I want to do in this segment is more show you some photographs so you get a visceral feel or an understanding what's going on here. So this is a large, typical distribution center. And remember, what we're looking for is case picking. So pallets have come in, they've been put in reserve, and now they're going to be moved to some pick area where you're going to put together an order that consists of cases. That's what I mean when I say case picking. And a case is simply a carton or a box. And you can see pictures of them here. And they generally weight between 5 and 50 pounds. They can be handled by one person. They're usually stored on a pallet, and they're relatively uniform shape. Why? Because it makes it easier. It's easier to put it on a conveyor belt, for example. The square, rectangular boxes are just much more efficient. So what I have here is if you look at the picture, you can see that there are pallets at each location. You can see them up at the higher levels. And you can see some of them are unitized, where they're wrapped with plastic. And the idea is that that product is going to move down, right? Because the pick faces are on the ground. And I circled them. And this is where you're going to actually build the loads out of cases. You're not going to climb to the fifth shelf to bring a case down. You're going to hopefully have that down here, and you're going to be working off of a pallet. What you can also notice is that some of the similar products-- I'm circling these white ones-- they're co-located because it's very easy to find those. And so it's easier to put your put away, some of your secondary storage, up high. It doesn't mean that you have to keep things a far distance away. It's very close to the pick face. It might have to be moved somewhere right around there to a lower level, but it's close. And so the idea here is that at the pick face, you have an open pallet, and that's what you pick from to build this order that's going to be comprised for the order going out made of cases. So here's an example. And this is from Pepsi. And this is the distribution center, where the order picker is riding on this forklift. And you see he is building a load made up of these individual cases. In this case, it's a rack of soda. And so he's going point to point and building a pallet of mixed types of sodas. At another location-- this is at Toys "R" Us-- you can see you have these cases coming in and they're on pallets, and they're on nice little rollers down here. And you can see on the other side of the picture, this is a conveyor belt. So the person will walk up and down this aisle and will, based on the order they have, they'll take the cases and put them onto the conveyor belt where they'll be moved down and consolidated. And that's where it gets unitized and ready for shipment. So what we have here is a combination of where cases are coming in, and from the picture, from the right, to the conveyor belt on the left. Here, you have the same type of thing in that you have both carton-picking from pallets. You see those back here. They're in their steady state positions. But also, these flow racks that are coming in. And so some of these-- it just makes it easier to bring in different pallets. And so you have got this conveyor in the center again, where cases are put on there and then moved down. Eaches picking is roughly the same thing, except it's at a smaller level. So here's a fast pick area for a company, and the racks here-- you've got these flow racks over here, right? And these are all eaches. And the conveyor belt is this line that I'm drawing a line through. And you see they're putting them into boxes. Each box is an order. So essentially, they're picking each one of them. They're using a system called pick-to-light, where you have an order, and it's telling you, for the item, which order are you going to put it in? There are other systems out there called pick-to-voice and different systems. It could be as simple as having a written list and going through and saying, two of these, one of these-- kind of like a regular shopping list. Or you can have these more sophisticated systems. The more sophisticated systems tend to be more efficient and have less mispicks. They just cost more money. So this is a fast pick lane. You can also look at a slow pick area. You're still eaches, but these are not as in high-demand. You notice you don't have that technology here. You don't have a pick-to-light system here. And the workers just walk up and down the aisle to fill in each of the boxes. Now, everything I've shown so far is what's known as a picker-to-stock system. The picker, the human, goes to where the stock is. You can also have reverse systems where the stock comes to the picker. And one of the classic examples here is a company called Kiva, now called Amazon Robotics, and they developed these little robots. And you see on top of them, they have a little shelf. And essentially, I'm sitting here ready to pick an order, and the WMS, the warehouse management system, starts sending these robots, these shelves to me, in the order, and then tells me what to pick to make my order. So just as we talked about the predominant cost of picking is travel, what am I doing here? I'm reducing the travel. The picker doesn't actually move. So you can have simultaneous robots coming to you with different materials. It dramatically improves the efficiency of an eaches pick. Now, there's other systems here. There's carousels, right? You can think of a big carousel. We've seen them with horses and everything. Well, they're inventory carousels that bring the product to you. There's also other automated storage and retrieval systems, ASRS's, and these are the larger systems that automatically bring the inventory to the picker. Think about one of those first pictures I showed you about the library. That is a totally automated system. So there are many different ways you can do this eaches picking, and the whole idea is that it's bringing either stock to the picker or the picker to the stock.
