Week 4, Lesson 3 · Video 9

OK, now let's take a closer look at the EOQ with planned backorders. Our notation hasn't changed. You see we have all the same things. The only thing we've added here is the shortage cost, c_s. And notice the dimensions: it's dollars per unit time, which is the same as the excess Holding Cost for the c_e, which remember, is just the cost of the item (the variable cost) * (the carrying or holding charge). So what you will see is that the planned backorder problem really is just a trade-off between having excess or too much inventory, and having too little and being short. It's really a trade-off -- and this is our lead-in to other types of inventory models. So what's the problem we're facing? Well, looking at our inventory chart again, our standard EOQ. Remember, our policy used to be: when inventory is at zero, place your order. So at each of these time periods, I would place an order for Q. And the question we're raising is: what happens if I allowed it to go to backorders? So I'm allowing the situation to go to a backorder or to stockout -- and so the questions we're trying to figure out are: 1. What should my new Q be? And then also, how far down should I be willing to go? How much backorder, how much stockout should I allow to happen? So if we look at this situation, what we can see is that each replenishment cycle -- remember the duration is T for that, the length or duration of a replenishment cycle -- we can divide that into two: T1, which is the length of time that I actually have inventory on hand, and T2, the length of time of that replenishment cycle where I'm backordered or stocked out. So if I know the T1 and T2, I can naturally figure out what my b is going to be -- and that's the quantity that I'll be backordered. And then I can figure out the maximum Inventory On Hand I'll have, which is simply the order quantity Q minus that backorder amount: Q - b. So what we're going to try and figure out is essentially -- let me see if I can change my pen color here-- I'm going to look at the area of this triangle, which is essentially the inventory I have on hand, and I'm going to multiply that by c_e, the cost of excess. And I'm going to compare that to this triangle -- I'm going to multiply this with c_s, because this is going to be the cost of the shortage. So again, we're trading off excess inventory versus shortage. How do I do that? Total relevant cost equation. Notice that I have two variables here. One is the Q, which is the order quantity, and the other is the b, how far I'm willing to go into backorder. Similar terms -- I've got the ordering cost: c_t is cost / order. D / Q, again, is the number of orders I will place over my longer time period -- let's just say it's a year. Then I've got my inventory Holding cost, it's going to be c_e, the cost of the excess, times the area of that triangle, of this triangle right here. Let me highlight it again. 1/2, the base is going to be T1 / T -- it's essentially the percentage of the time of the replenishment period that I will have inventory on hand, times the height, Q - b. Then I'm going to add in the shortage cost, and that's going to be c_s, that cost of shortage we talked about, times the area of this triangle. Let me just highlight it again. This triangle right in here. OK, so it's going to be c_s * 1/2 * (T2/T) {the base} * b {the height}. Now I know by looking at these triangles and remembering back to geometry that the relationship for the large triangle, Q/T, is going to be the same as (Q-b)/T1 for this triangle that I'm highlighting, and the same for the b / T2 for this small triangle that I highlighted here -- the ratios are all the same. So that means the ratio of T1/T = (Q-b)/Q (just rearranging terms) and T2/T = b/Q. Again, just rearranging terms so I get it into a form that I can use. So, using these relationships, I look back at my Total Relevant Cost equation and I can clean it up a little bit. Wherever I had a T1/T or a T2/T, I'm just going to replace it with my new quantities. So the total relevant cost equation is here, and I can clean it up a little bit, and so I get this Total Relevant Cost equation as a function of the order quantity and the amount I want to backorder. And you can see the three terms -- the ordering cost, the second term is the inventory Holding cost, and the third term is the shortage cost. Next video, we'll solve it!
