Week 3, Lesson 1 · Video 3

OK. So let's look at how we normalize seasonality indices. So remember from our example, we just estimated the seasonality for the next Monday, time period 105, and it came out to be 0.506. I expanded all the indices out to three decimal places just to make it a little easier. You noticed that previously, our sum was to five, because it added to P. Now, my most recent ones don't. They add up to 5.006. So I'm a little high. What does that mean? Well, what happens if I ignore this? So what? 0.006, that's no big deal. Who cares? Well, what's going to happen over time is that it's going to keep building up. And so at some point, it's not going to sum up to P. It's not going to average out to one. That means I'm going to introduce a bias. In this case if it keeps creeping up, it'll be a positive bias, but it could just as easily be a negative bias. But you can't ignore it, because it'll keep building over time. You always need to update your parameters. So what we need to do is update or normalize them. So what are we going to do? Well, we have our old factors, so the next factor I'm going to use is going to be Tuesdays. This 0.750. So how am I going to modify that? Well, I take the old values, and when I multiply them by P, in this case, remember that's five, divided by the sum of the old, which is what we just did. And that's 5.006-- 5.006. So that's going to be a number slightly less than 1. So what does this mean? I'm going to multiply them all, each of these seasonality factors by that number. I'm normalizing it. And what will that do? That'll make the sum go back to 5. So if I look at all of these. These are my old ones, the ones I currently did to include the new Monday one that I just estimated, then I modify them by the p over some of the old seasonality indexes or 5 over 5.006, and I got this. So each one is reduced by about 0.001. So I know it's a little bit of rounding in there at the third decimal place, but the sum is 5. So I'm evened out again. I sum up to P, the number of periods, I average to 1. I'm not introducing any bias anymore. So this is a pain to do in spreadsheets to be honest. It's a lot of bookkeeping. So it's tricky to maintain this in a spreadsheet, but it's important to know that this has to happen. So if you're using a more sophisticated tool, you should understand what happens to these seasonality factors and how they update them and just make sure that it's being done. And you can always check and see, are the seasonality factors drifting? So this is just to make sure you understand the bookkeeping and understand how the updating process needs to go.
