Week 8, Lesson 3 · Video 10

OK, the last thing I want to cover in this lesson is profiling and assessing performance of a warehouse. So it will just be a short discussion to talk about some of the activities you might undertake to understand how well your warehouse is performing, maybe how to change your different operations, or even how to design a new one. So the underlying question is how do we determine how to design and operate a warehouse or distribution center? So think about the data that you might need to look at. You're going to need to know the number of SKUs in the warehouse. Obviously, the more SKUs, perhaps the more size you need. Number of pick lines per day, number of units per pick line. Understand how you're actually performing now. Number and size of custom orders shipped and shipments received per day. This makes sense if you're shipping full truckloads in, full truckloads out, or much smaller quantities. The rate of new SKU introductions and their respective life cycles. So if you're constantly bringing in new SKUs, perhaps that's a different way you want to set up your warehouse. Maybe segment a certain area so that you're only handling those new introductions. So you want to make sure when you look at these numbers, you look at the distribution-- not just the average number, right? Make sure you understand what the underlying distribution is, what the variability is, because a lot of times, that gives you more insights. So you're going to be looking for data from multiple sources here. The master SKU data, which usually resides in the ERP system, should have all the physical, financial, and other characteristics of each SKU. What it might not have, and a lot of times it doesn't contain, is packaging information. So I know the size of a certain SKU-- do I know the size of a case of that? Or how many items fit on a pallet? So you want to make sure that the information you're looking for is more of the physical characteristics. Unfortunately, mostly the financial characteristics are what's stored in the systems. You need to know the order history, the customer transactions. Again, you need to know the physical rather than the financial. When did things flow? How much flowed? What date was it picked up? What date was it distributed? It's helpful to know the warehouse location to know where all the different slots are. And so you can think of a map or something that's maybe a CAD diagram, and this is the least standardized of these three data sources. A lot of times you won't have anything digital here, and you're just going to have to work off paper copies. OK, so you understand that you're grabbing all this data, you're trying to understand what the warehouse is supposed to serve in terms of SKUs, cases, pallets, and things like that. You now want to think about, OK, should I segment things? Because segmentation analysis, which I believe was in the very first lecture of this course-- it's not just for demand planning. We looked at it that way mainly to segment demand for different customers, but you can use it in many different ways. And so let's talk about how we would use segmentation for warehouse operations. Well, one of the first things and the classic way to do this-- this is way we did ABC analysis-- is look at the frequency of the individual SKUs that are sold, and look at the top-selling SKUs. And, you know, the 80/20 rule will probably apply. There'll be a [INAUDIBLE]. Very few number SKUs will constitute the majority of the sales. However, for a warehouse, this is not as relevant, because a lot of times, the top-selling SKUs-- their real influence is on the retail operations, at the final point of sale, not necessarily in the warehouse operations. Instead, you might want to look at the frequency of pallets, cases, or cartons by SKU. These won't necessarily match the frequency of the individual SKUs. I might have larger cases or multiple items in each case. And so if I have cases of 100 each and other products have cases with just two each, then the number of cases is what matters, not the number of SKUs that are sold. Because this gives you insights into what you're going to have to do for receiving, the put away, and the restocking of your pick lines. SKUs with fewer pieces per case will naturally rise to the top. You can also look at frequency of picks by SKU. So, you know, order picking drives most of the labor cost-- 50% to 60%-- so understanding the frequency of pick by different SKUs lets you assemble them better, put them in the best positions. Which SKUs do I put in the fast pick lane versus a slower pick lane. And this helps determine where I want to put things, perhaps, in a forward pick location, closer to that final assembly point. And then I always want to look at the variability of demand and understand seasonality. Does seasonality occur by year, by quarter, by day of week, even by time of day? Now, time of day seasonality seems silly, but think about what you have to plan-- labor. And so if you know that predominately orders come in at 8:00 in the morning or 6:00 in the morning till 10:00 in the morning versus uniformly across the day, then what you have to do is structure your labor accordingly. You might have to have split shifts or other things. And then seasonality by year-- you want to look and understand how the different SKUs move. And it could be that different seasonal SKUs peak at different times, but overall, the flow is constant. And in that case, you might want to segment a piece of your warehouse for seasonal goods. It'll change based on the season of the year, but you know the total flow is generally the same. So these are the kind of things you want to look at. Final one is correlation to other products. You want to look for what's known as affinity between items or families. If I sell product A, does product B get sold? What things get sold together? And one interesting anecdote for this-- there was one apparel DC I read about that zoned their apparel by size-- large, extra large, medium, whatever-- rather than by style. Because they found that if someone tended to be ordering something for themselves and they found something they'd like, they'd order multiple things, but they'd all be in the same size. So they found orders coming in with the same size things, but of multiple, different styles. And so rather than putting all the, I don't know, the blue shirts together, the red shirts, whatever, they put everything by size. And that made sense. It's kind of zoning by what's needed, by the correlations of other products. OK, the last thing I want to cover is measuring and benchmarking. So how do I know that my warehouse is doing a good job? Well, there's three main dimensions here-- labor, then people hours, the space that I'm using, and the money that I invested in my equipment. And if I look at these, these are three simple equations for labor. It's the number of hours that I'm using, people hours per year, times the labor rate. For space, it's area occupied times the cost of space-- that rental space in that part of the country. And then for equipment, it's the money invested times the amortization rate. What's my holding rate? Now, we know that all these ones over on the right you tend to have no control over. You really have no control over what the market labor rate is, what the rental space is, or what your company's holding rate is, your amortization rate. But you do control these other ones, totally. These are your design elements. How do I want to staff my people? How do I want to allocate my space? Where do I want to invest in any kind of automation? So these are the things that you control. Now, when we look at performance measures, these are things that you will then compare to other DCs in your own firm or other firms. You could use this for benchmarking. And there's only a certain number of dimensions or metrics that we use. One is productivity or efficiency, and this is simply the ratio of the output to the inputs that are required. And the classic example is labor productivity, and you can think of it as the number of cases that can be picked per hour, or number of pallets put away per hour. Think of any activity, and that's the output. The input is the number of hours it takes to get it done. Another one that's commonly used in warehousing is utilization, and this is the percentage of an asset that is being actively used. So think, if I have a machine that has up to 2,000 hours I can use it a year, the number of hours I use it divided by what's available is my utilization. You'll see this in something called storage density. What's the storage capacity that I have in my warehouse divided by the total area? So how efficiently am I using the area that I have? How well am I utilizing that area? Quality or effectiveness-- these ones affect more of the customer side, right? So you want to look at the accuracy and put away. Accuracy in inventory, picking, shipping. How many mispicks per thousand or per million? How many errors in the labeling? And so any shipment that doesn't fit the necessary requirement is a miss. And so you're measuring these in terms of effectiveness-- how well am I hitting those targets? And finally, time. Time is a great one to measure to understand how well, how smoothly, you're operating. So two standard ones are dock to stock-- time from when an order was received, a shipment was received, to being where it's ready to be picked. So dock to stock. The other is order cycle time-- time when an order is dropped in the warehouse until it's ready to ship. So these are capturing the two ends of the cycle. The first one, dock-to-stock, is capturing receipt to ready to be picked, and the second one is capturing when an order comes, when it gets fulfilled-- order cycle time. OK, this is just a short discussion about the different ways you can measure and benchmark and assess the performance of different warehouses.
