Week 7 · Welcome to Week 7

Hi, welcome back. This week in SC1x, Supply Chain Fundamentals, we're going to continue our discussion on inventory, but we're going to make a big change in our assumptions. Instead of assuming, as we did for economic order quantity, or EOQ, that demand was deterministic, we're going to introduce uncertainty because uncertainty plays a key role in everything we do with supply chain. We'll start with it being uncertain demand. But later on, we'll take it with uncertain transportation time or uncertain supply or maybe uncertainty in the price. So all of these things tie together. Because uncertainty is a key component of any supply chain. And you need to learn how to handle that. So what we're going to do this week is do two main things. I'm going to talk about demand distributions and different ways of capturing that randomness or that stochasticity. And then, I'm also going to introduce a new problem, the news vendor problem, which is our first inventory problem that uses uncertain demand for a single period. OK, so let's start talking about demand distributions. So before, with EOQ, we said the demand was x, and it was always x. Now, we're going to have randomness to it. And so different ways we can capture that is using different distributions. And you can divide these distributions into discrete and continuous. And I'll explain the difference in a second. So the first one is known as empirical. And so I could just go in and actually see what my sales were the last period where, in each of these charts, this is the demand, the x, and this is the probability that it happened. And, essentially, empirical simply means this is the observed. So this is what you actually saw. We don't use that that often because history doesn't repeat itself exactly. Sometimes, you'll use this. But generally, you'll use a distribution, a theoretical distribution, which is what the rest of these are going to be. So you can use empirical, but generally, we won't use it that much. But it is a distribution you can use. The first one I want to talk about is uniform. And uniform starts with a minimum-- let's see if I can to do this-- an a and a b. And it's, essentially, equal probability for every unit in between there. So they all have equal probability. And we'll say that this is distributed uniformly with a minimum of a and a maximum of b. And we'll use this a lot. This is actually a very commonly-used distribution because it's easy to work with. The next one is really widely used, especially in slow-moving items. And we'll do this for inventory in a couple of weeks. And that's the Poisson. And the Poisson looks something like this. And it has, what makes it really unique, it has this really long right tail. And so we use this for slow movers because you might move one or two. But you might have a long right tail for the probabilities. And this is distributive Poisson, and we use a lambda as the parameter. And lambda is actually the average and the variance. It's a very special distribution that we'll use a lot of for slow-moving inventory. So these are discrete because they only take discrete integer values. Now, the next set are known as continuous because they can take any value. It doesn't have to be an integer. And you might ask, well, why? If I'm selling shirts, it's always a discrete number of shirts. Well, the idea is, if I sell 3,622, does it really matter that I'm exactly an integer? Can't I model that as a continuous number, anyway, because it's rounding? And so that's why we tend to use continuous distributions when we can. Because they're easier to use. OK. So the first one is one that should look familiar. It's, again, another uniform. But this is uniform, continuously, between two values. And, again, it's an a and a b. And we'll still say this is distributed uniformly with a minimum of a and a maximum of b. And it'll be very obvious which one you use, whether I'm going discrete or continuous. We'll just tell you that. Typically, continuous is used more often. But it's just another distribution that you'll see. One that you'll see a lot of-- it's because we love it-- is the normal distribution. You've seen this before. It's the bell-shaped distribution. And it's distributed normally. And its two parameters are the mean and the standard deviation. We'll use this a lot. And so you'll get very comfortable with using the normal distribution. But it's not the only distribution out there. But we'll be using this extensively for inventory. OK, the last continuous one that I want to talk about is the triangle distribution. I love the triangle distribution because it's one that you can use in practice with very little historical data. And it has three parameters. And so your distributed triangle, a, b, and c, where a is the minimum, b is the maximum, c is the mode. And so why would you use something like this? Well, in practice, most people don't know what their demand looks like. But they know the slowest day. They know the day with the biggest demand. And they know what, kind of, happens on average. And you can use the triangle distribution to tweak out what that would be. And so I find it very useful when I'm talking to people who don't have that much historical data. So these are the six distributions we're going to work with. I'm actually only going to work with these five. I'm not going do anything more with empirical. But we're going to try to answer three questions. Three questions. And so what are the questions? Well, the first question is, if I have a value of inventory Q, then I want to know, I want to find my probability of stocking out. So what does this mean? Well, let's say I have an inventory. Let me just mark this line. Let's say I have this much inventory. I'm just drawing this line all the way down. And I'm going to call this Q, right? This is Q. So I have Q units of inventory. I want to know, based on my distribution, what's the probability that I'll run out? And that's going to be whatever is over on the right side of it. So it would be this, whatever that probability is here. Poisson probably wouldn't. Here, it'd be whatever this probability is. For the normal, it's whatever this is. And for the triangle, it's whatever this is. It's the same concept, regardless of the distribution, but the math changes a little bit. So the second question is, if I give you a service level, say, the probability of stocking out, or the probability of not stocking out is more common, then I want to find the Q. In other words, if I want to say, I want to make sure that my probability of stocking out is this, under the normal, then I need to find this Q. So you'll get used to this. But these are kind of the same questions. They're like an inverse of the same question. And the third question we want to answer is, given a certain quantity, a Q, I want to know what is the expected amount, or units, that I am going to sell? And what's the expected units that I'm going to be short? Now, before, we were finding the probability that it happened. Now, I want to find the actual expected number of units that are short and the expected number of units that are sold. So it's a little bit different. But these are the three questions that you need to answer in every single inventory system. What we're going to do in the first lesson is really go through this in detail and show you example after example after example, so you're comfortable with the mechanics. Because, at the end of the day, it's the same three functions, but the math changes a little bit. OK, that's the first lesson. In the second lesson, we're going to introduce the news vendor problem, which is one of my favorite inventory problems. It's core, almost equally important as EOQ. Where EOQ is the best way to find that trade-off between short, variable, and long-term costs, or fixed costs, news vendor gives you the trade-off between too much and too little, cost of excess and cost of shortage. So let me give you what the problem comes from. It's called the news vendor problem for a reason. It's also called the single period model. So what happens? Well, you're a newsboy, right? This is you. And you sell newspapers every day. You sell the Boston Globe, which is the local paper here in Boston. And so every day, you've got to let the Boston Globe know how much you want to order, your Q. And then what happens is you will pay for it at that time, and they will send you as many newspapers as you ordered, right? All these stack of newspapers. So you get that that day. Now, you've got to sell those newspapers that day. If you have more, let's say you only sell this many, then you're stuck with those other ones. You've got to throw them away because no one buys yesterday's newspaper. If you run out, you can't go get any more because you bought that much in the morning. So the idea-- it's a single period, I have to figure out how much I want to order ahead of time, and there's no replenishment during that period. It sounds simple, but at the heart of it is every single inventory policy. So what we have here is the demand that you're facing, the other people here that want to buy the newspapers. But this is a random variable. So it's distributed somehow. So that is x. That's the demand that I'm facing. You've picked Q, how much you're going to order. And so you've got two cases. First, what happens if my demand is less than Q? Well, then what this means is I'm going to have excess. I'm going to have too much, too many papers. We're going to put a cost on that, c sub e. The other case is where x is greater than Q. The demand, right, this is the demand, x. And it's distributed somehow. We don't know. And that's greater than what I actually have. This is what I actually have for papers. And in that case, I'm short. And the cost for that is going to be c sub s. So we have this cost of excess, cost of shortage, overage and underage. It's the same term. People use slightly different terms. It means the same thing. So the critical ratio is something that you're going to use. And I'll just put it here really quickly. It's simply the ratio of the cost of shortage over the cost of excess plus the cost of shortage. So looking at the equation, we're no math majors, but we can tell that number is going to be between 0 and 1. It can't be any greater than one because it's in the denominator, as well as the numerator. So it's going to be between 0 and 1. As it gets higher, that means you don't want to stock out as much because that means the cost of shortage exceeds, is much higher than, the cost of excess. And the cool thing about this critical ratio, what it tells you, is how much of the distribution to cover to maximize profit. This is the only inventory model that we'll cover that maximizes profit rather than reduces cost or minimizes cost. And so this all fits into this profit equation, which I'm going to actually put up here. So profit is going to be equal to the price that people pay for it times the minimum of either x or Q, right? The minimum of either how many people are demanding the papers or Q, how many you ordered. You can't sell more than people want or more than you have. And you're going to subtract off c times Q, the cost that you paid for each paper times the number of papers. This is the profit function. And so you're going to maximize your profit. Pick a Q under this uncertainty, this random, to maximize my profit. So this week, we're introducing uncertainties, stochastic demand. We're going to show you all these different distributions. You're going to get very comfortable with how to use them, when to use them. And then, we're going to put them to practice in the news vendor problem, and you'll see how this problem goes. So enjoy the videos. Try the quick questions, the practice problems. Have fun.
