Week 9, Lesson 2 · Video 1

In this lecture, we're going to talk about Lead Time variability and mode selection because they're really intertwined topics. So we're going to cover four big things. We're going to talk about the connections of transportation to inventory planning, how it ties together with the total landed cost. Then we'll talk about sources of transit time reliability, or lack of reliability really. We'll talk about how we handle that in the planning process, how we handle Lead Time variability. And we'll finish up with mode selection because these all kind of tie together. So let's talk about the transportation impact on inventory. So here's our total cost equation. This should be very familiar to you guys by now, where I've got my purchase price. I've got my ordering cost. And then I've got a series of inventory costs, where it's Cycle stock, Safety Stock, and then this is pipeline inventory. And then here I just put some kind of stockout equation. This is a cost per each stockout, remember the number of cycles per year and the probability of stocking out in a cycle. We're not going to focus on the stockout too much because, as we saw in inventory, most companies set a k, they set a service level, whether it's a Cycle Service Level or a fill rate, and they usually go with that. But the question we're going to ask today is, how does transportation impact this total cost equation? And we can see some obvious ones, like the cost of transportation. So we can think of if the cost is variable, right? It might show up in the cost per item, which would also show up here, too, since that's just C times H. But if it's also cost per load, then it might show up here in the ordering cost, if it's a cost for moving a whole bunch of items, regardless of how many are there, up to a capacity level, of course. So the cost of transportation is obviously one way that it's going to interact. Another way is Lead Time. As I have longer Lead Time, obviously my pipeline inventory is going to get more expensive. It's get longer because that L gets longer. But also the variability. We saw how variability of demand affects Safety Stock. We'll see how variability of transportation of the Lead Time also affects it. Then we're going to go into capacity. So the idea of capacity is that if you come up with an EOQ and the Q is greater than the capacity of, say, one truck or one container, then that places a limit. So it's usually a maximum capacity that is placed. And then there's some miscellaneous factors that are quite in this equation, but things like hazardous material. How does that affect things, or a damage rate? And those things will go into-- you include those in some other way. But the big ones we're going to focus on are the cost and Lead Time. Those are the real drivers. So let's focus on cost first. And there's only so many cost functions we're going to see in transportation. One that you will see is a pure variable cost. So this chart shows dollar per unit, so transportation cost per unit, and the number of units being shipped. And over here I just show the same thing on a shipment level, so it's dollars per shipment. And as the number of units increase, it's a linear function since each one is a certain amount. So this is the same thing as a C. You just add it into the C to the purchase cost. It's just an additional variable cost per unit. We also see something like this where you have a pure fixed cost. And the idea here is that I've got one cost, let's say $1,000 per load for a container or something. Whether I ship one unit in that container or up to the maximum capacity, it's going to cost me the same. So the per unit cost will rapidly decrease. It'll be asymptotic there, right? So if I only ship one, you'll bear the full cost of it. As I add more on, it'll get decreasing less per unit, which means it's just a flat cost per shipment. And so what would we do here? We would modify the fixed order cost, C sub t, because it's a cost per shipment. Now, often you'll have a mix of these. You'll have both a fixed cost and then a variable cost. And so here I just modify both, C_t and C. So it's pretty straightforward for cost. You can see how they affect. And these are predominant ways that you'll see a lot of these different ones. Truckload trucking is almost all this pure fixed cost. Containers will be fixed cost. The mixed variable and fixed, you'll see an LTL and some other modes. But you might also see some other functions, like a variable cost with a minimum. Now, this looks like it might be what we saw before where you have a fixed and variable cost. But that's like this. The difference here is for the previous one, if I had any units, I show a variable cost. For this, with a min charge, the first number of units I'm going to pay the same price up until some point, and then I pay that additional variable cost. What it's doing is adding in kind of a fixed cost, but it's also known as a minimum quantity, like a minimum order. And so you see this as a minimum charge a lot in less than truckload shipping. So the variable cost, we'd say, oh, it's only certain amount, but they need more to cover it so they can create this minimum charge. It makes it complicated because it's a concave function. And so it's a little more special. We'll talk about this in a later course. But then you might have something like an incremental discount. As I ship more, I get a lower unit cost. And we know this. This looks very familiar. It's an EOQ incremental discount. And so it's very similar to that, and we could solve it that way. So there are many different ways that you can have cost interact with transportation. The most common ones are fixed, variable, or a combination of. And we'll talk about those next through an example.
