Week 2, Lesson 1 · Video 4: Third Forecasting Truism

So our third forecasting truism is that shorter horizon forecasts are more accurate. The idea here is it's easier to predict the temperature tomorrow than a year from tomorrow. And it makes sense, because you have more knowledge about the shorter term, what's happening right now, than what might be happening a year from now. But this applies to shorter time horizons as well. So let's go back to my favorite sandwich shop. And just like it's easier to forecast for tomorrow than a year from tomorrow, it's easier to forecast on a very short time frame, say, a half an hour, than it is for a whole day in advance. So let's think about my sandwich shop here. And I've got these four sandwiches over here on the right. You see these guys. And this is a time frame. And I expect them to be consumed at noon on the following day. And so this is going backwards in time. So this is at 9 o'clock, or 2100 hours, the day before. And let's say I have to make my sandwiches at that point. Well, if I'm doing that, I'm making a forecast for the next day. And that's nine hours in advance. And that's fine. I can probably do that. But I'm going to have a coefficient of variation. So if I knew the variance of the demand for each one of these, I could figure out what my coefficient of variation would be. But what if I did something different? What if instead of making them all into a forecast, make to stock the night before, instead I will slice the ham that I think I will need. And I'll have them ready so that one hour before, once I see what the day is shaping up, I make them at a much shorter time. So I start making right before noon, but I make my forecast for how much ham I slice the day before. What are we doing here? Well, we're postponing. We're postponing the final consumption instead of making of four those items, each of those sandwiches back here the day before, hoping to guess what the demand for each would be. I'm waiting and I'm pooling that demand for the ham and I'm slicing that ahead of time. And I'm not making that final customization until the very end. So this is another example of risk pooling and postponement. So this will increase the forecast accuracy of the ham, because what I'm doing is if I know the CV of each of these sandwiches separately-- and let's say they're identical, just for the sake of argument-- then I know my CV for ham for here will be half of the CV for each of the individual items. Why? Because it's going to decrease by a factor square root of n. n is 4 here-- one, two, three, four. So the CV of the individual one divided by the square root of 4 is divided by 2. So it's 1/2. So my coefficient of variation is cut in half by postponing. So this is a simple example, but you see postponement all the time. And this is why we try to think about that concept as raw as possible. We talked about it in the first week. The idea is you want to push and postpone the final customization for as late as you can, whether it's a high end electronics item, a car, or even something as simple as a sandwich. So let's look at all three of the truisms. The first one is forecasts are always wrong. People will say this to try to discount the value of forecasting. And it's really a bad argument. The idea is that forecasts are wrong. Yeah, it's true. They will always be wrong. But to combat that, you should use a range forecast. You should track your forecast error, because that's what you can use to, one, improve your forecasting capabilities, but also understand how it is used within your different operations, whether it's your inventory or capacity planning. The second truism is that aggregated forecasts are always more accurate. And this is true, and this gets the idea of risk pooling, because risk pooling reduces the coefficient of variation. And when you reduce the coefficient of variation, it makes it easier and more accurate to do a forecast. And then the third truism was that shorter time horizon forecasts are more accurate. Again, it's true. It's a truism. And this leads to the idea that we want to postpone customization as late as possible. That raw as possible concept, keep products as raw and customize as late as possible. So these three truisms, yes, they're true. But they lead to actions that you should take within your supply chain. And then the rest of the lectures, we'll talk about how each of these impact the forecasting, the inventory planning, as well as the transportation design.
