Week 7, Lesson 1 · Video 8

So in this lesson, we want to find the expected units short and the expected units sold for a continuous distribution with minimum of a and a maximum of b. So expected units sold. This is our standard form. We're going to, remember, divide it into two when the demand is less than what I have on hand, q and then when demand exceeds what I have on hand. So this is my pdf And you can see graphically over on the right hand side. So what do I start with? Well I know I need to go from 0 to infinity. So there's really 4 areas I'm concerned about. First is from 0 to a, and that's this area up until the minimum. And I know the probability of that happening is 0. Right? Because I said it's a uniform distribution from a minimum of 60. And on the other extreme, from b to infinity, I also know that that's going to be 0 because I'm over here. So I can really kind of forget about those two terms, and I can focus in on the two in the middle. So what these ones are saying-- and I just moved them over here to the right-- I'm going from a to Q. So I'm looking at this area between a and Q. And that's going to be x times fx. And the fx is simply the pdf, 1 over b minus a. I'm going to add to that any demand that's greater than Q up until the max. That's Q to b. And I'm going to multiply Q, the quantity that I have, times the probability it's going to happen, 1 over b minus a. Because if demand exceeds what I have on hand, how many am I going to sell? What I have on hand or Q. OK, so now, I'm just going to integrate those. Let me clean this up a little bit so you can make sure you see it. So I've got two terms, and we're going to use that inverse power law that we just saw. So the integral of x is simply going to be x squared over 2. Right? X squared over 2 times 1 over b minus a. The second one is going to be-- you're going to increment it. And so right now, you consider this being x to the 0th. So it's going to become x to the 1 over 1, which is what I have here, times Q over b minus a. And I'm going to evaluate those-- the first term, from a to Q, and the second term, from Q to b. So this is simply plugging in. So here's the first term. So I plug in Q, the higher or the upper bound, Q squared over 2 times b minus a. Minus, plugged in at the lower bound, a squared over 2 times b minus a. And I'm going to add my second term. And again, evaluate at the upper and the lower bounds. And so that's Q times b over b minus a minus Q squared or b minus a. So I can collect terms and everything, but I end up with a closed form solution. A formula that tells me if I have a uniform distribution from a to b and I have Q units on hand, this will tell me the expected number of units I sell. So now let's do expected units short. And again, we're going to go from Q up to infinity. Now everything below Q, all that demand below Q, I will have nothing short because I have enough. But if demand exceeds what I have on hand, then I will be short a number of units. How many units will I be short? Well, what's demanded minus how much I have on hand or Q. So this actually simplifies down to Q to b because the probability of being above b, like we showed before, is 0. So I'm not even going to write it down. So I'm going to go from x equals Q to b. And I want to integrate this term, x minus Q times the pdf, 1 over b minus a, dx. So I'm going to separate this out. I'm going to do it for the first term. So it's x times 1 over b minus adx minus Q times 1 over b minus a. I could have taken the 1 over b minus a on the outside and done them separately. It's the same way. You'd end up with the same thing. And again, integrating the x becomes x squared over 2 over here. And the Q becomes Qx over 1. And then I'm going to evaluate those at their limits, at their lower and upper bound limits. Just plugging in x equals b for here. Subtract off where an x equals Q. So this is the first term. Then you see the second term doing the exact same thing, just following it through mechanically. And you end up with this term, which if you play around a little bit, you can clean it up and collect some like terms and multiply it out. I'll let you do that as an exercise. You end up with this, that the expected units short for a uniform distribution from a to b with the quantity Q on hand is b minus Q squared over 2 times b minus a. OK, so why did we do all this stuff? Well, because we ended up with this. We can now solve our problem. Because I found formulas for the expected units sold, the expected units short, and I know this already, the expected demand, a plus b over 2. So now I can find my answer. I can just plug and chug for a equals 60, b equals 140, my Q is 75. My expected units sold is going to be 73.6, and I'm going to be short 26.4. Now a simpler way to do this is to actually plug back in the expected values short, solve this, and then just subtract it off from the expected units demanded. Because remember, the units sold plus the units short equals the units demanded. So what are we saying? For this, if I wrote 75 chickens a day, I'll sell an average just under that 73.6. And I expect to be short about 26.4 because that's demand that I'm not satisfying. So the reason why we went the long way and showed you the integration is to show you how we got to these formulas. Now when we get into the normal distribution or the triangle distribution, I'm not going to show you the math that got us there. But I wanted to show you at least once to show you what's happening. And all you're doing is finding expected values. But for those other more complicated function, the math gets scary. So we're going to stay with it here, but I wanted to show you how we got there. For future distributions, I'll just show you these formulas that we derived. All right. So that's it for the continuous distribution, and hopefully this gives you a little bit of an insight of how integration plays a part.
