Week 3, Lesson 1 · Video 4

So now let's include seasonality in a model that includes both level and trend. So this is sometimes called the Holt-Winter method or Holt-Winter model. And what we're going to have is an additive trend in a multiplicative seasonality. So I assume that I have some kind of standard level, this a, plus some generally persistent trend, b, and then there's some seasonality. And my underlying model is simply going to be that the demanded time period, t, is equal to the level plus the trend times t, the number of trends that I've had so far, and that sum is going to be multiplied by F sub t, the seasonality index for that period. And I'm adding in my error term. And that, again, is identical and independently distributed with a mean of 0 and some variance. The forecasting model will follow this. So x hat for time period t, forecasting for time period, t plus tau-- so I'm going tau units into the future-- is going to be equal to the estimated level I had at time t plus the number of units I'm going forward in the future, number of time periods, tau, times the estimate b hat t, which is the estimate of the level at time t. I'm going to multiply that sum times the seasonality of the most recent similar period. That's f hat t plus tau minus p. So I have three patterns-- level, trend, and seasonality-- so I have three updating equations. The first one should look very familiar. It's the same one that we had for the double exponential smoothing model in the last video. The estimated level at time period t, is at the end of time period t, equals alpha times the new information. And the new information is the new demand that occurred, x sub t, divided by the most recent seasonality for that time period t, f hat t minus p. So I'm going p units of time back to the most recent relevant time period. I'm going to add 1 minus alpha times the old information. The old information for the level is the estimate of a hat t minus 1, plus b hat t minus 1. So it's the estimates of the last period for the level and the trend. The updating equation for the trend is going to be identical to what we did in the Holt model. So again, it's beta hat t equals, or b hat t, equals beta times the new information-- which is the newly estimated level that we just did-- minus the estimate of the level from the time period before. So this is my best estimate if there's a new trend. Plus 1 minus beta times b hat t minus 1, which is the estimate I had from the previous time period for the level. Excuse me, for the trend. Finally, we have the seasonality update. That's f hat t, and that's equal to gamma times xt over a hat t. And what are we doing here? We're deleveling. I'm taking the actual demand and dividing it by the estimate of the level. So this is giving me an indication if the seasonality is changed. Plus 1 minus gamma, times f hat t minus p. It's the seasonal term for the most recent similar time period. So let's look at an example. We're still in our sandwich shop. And now we're looking at the bagels, and they have an additive trend and we think a multiplicative seasonality. Day of week, so there's five time periods in our seasonality, so p equals five. And so now it's Friday, time period 104. And we've estimated that the level estimated at that time period, 104, is about 121 bagels. So on average, we sell about 121 bagels a day. And we've noticed that we have a trend, we're increasing sales of about 0.3 bagels per day. Linear and it's positive. So at the end of a week, we're selling about 1.5 more bagels a week-- just 5 times 0.3. So the current seasonality factors are shown to the right, in that little table. And the smoothing factors are alpha is 0.1, beta is 0.08, and gamma is 0.05. So my forecast for Monday, so that's x hat 104, Friday, 4, 105 is for Monday. It's one business day forward. So I'm just going to plug and chug here, and it's going to be equal to the recent estimate of the level, which is 121. I gave that to you. Plus 0.3, is my most recent estimate of the trend, multiplied by my most recent estimate of what Monday seasonality is like, 0.5. And that gives me an estimate of 60.7. So now, let's suppose that in fact at the end of Monday, it was a banner day for bagels. We sold 76. Big day. So now I want to know what do I forecast for demand for Tuesday, in time 106? Now because it went up, that means my seasonality might be increased, right? So I'm going to take that new information into account. So I did this in a spreadsheet. This should look familiar to you by now. Cell C1 is the alpha, the beta's in C2, and the gamma's in cell C3. And so my estimate for the level is down here in cell D11, and it's simply alpha times the new demand divided by the most recent seasonality, which is F6-- because remember, I'm finding the estimate for the level in time period 105 for period for Monday, so that's why I'm dividing it by a Monday seasonality-- plus 1 minus alpha times the most recent estimates for the level and the trend, D10 and E10. And my estimate for the trend is going to be beta, up here in cell C2, times the most recent estimates of the level, D11 and D10, plus 1 minus beta, times my most recent estimate of the trend itself, which is in cell E10 right here. Then the last thing I do is my seasonality. And that's simply going to be equal to the gamma times the ratio of the C11, which is the most recent demand that I have, divided by my level, my most recent estimate of the level, D11, which I just did. Plus 1 minus gamma times my most recent estimate of that relevant time period's seasonality, which is F6, which is the last Monday. Because remember, this is telling me that the new Monday estimate of seasonality has gone up a little bit. Right? Because I had such a big banner day, it might be noise, but it might also be an indicator that I have more seasonality. That maybe Mondays are picking up and I need to adjust those. So then I can find my estimate for Tuesday off of this, right? So it's just going to be the D11, which is the estimate for level, plus 1 tau-- I've only gone one period ahead-- times my new estimate of the trend, which is 0.5. And for this, I'm going to multiply it by F7. Why is that? Because this is a forecast, or a prediction, or an estimate, for Tuesday. So I'm going to the Tuesday. So what I've done is I've taken the estimate of the level, added the trend, multiplied by what I expect to sell on a Tuesday-- which is a 0.75-- and that will give you my forecast for Tuesday, 93.7.
