Week 9, Lesson 1 · Video 6

OK, in this lesson we really exposed you to a lot of aspects of transportation. I wanted you to see pictures of what railroads and ships and everything looks like. But there are also some key points I want you to take away. One of the key points is the idea of different transportation modes. Typically, we think of transportation modes by their technology-- if it uses rubber wheels and it goes on a highway, it's a truck. If it has steel wheels and it goes on a rail, it's a railroad. And then same thing for ocean, and water, and air, goes in the air. But what's more helpful is to think of how they're used. And these are known as the economic modes. We talked about the two main economic modes-- one is direct, where the vehicle goes from one point directly to another point whenever you need it. And so think about the POV or the taxi going from MIT to Boston, or think about the truck come from the Port of New York/New Jersey to Kansas City. It moves from whatever point you want to whatever point, and whenever you need it. Then there's the schedule modes. And these are the ones that move between terminals on a regularly published schedule. So think of airlines. Airlines will go from airport to airport on a certain schedule. Railroads will do the same thing. Ocean carriers will do the same thing. And there's some aspects of trucking that move on a regular schedule, as well. So direct and scheduled are treated very differently. One moves point to point whenever you need, and the other operates on a schedule. So if I'm late to a scheduled mode, then I'm going to have to wait till the next time it comes around. For ocean carriers, that could be a week. For trains, that could be 10 minutes. For planes, it could be an hour or two. It depends. So embedded in this is the problem of the balance problem. And so for direct, whenever I have a pallet moving from where it's loaded to where it's consumed, then I've got to get that pallet back. So it needs to be balanced. Just like we said, going through airport security, the idea is that those rubber totes, those plastic totes you use, always end up at the wrong place. Same thing happens to pallets, to containers, to rail cars, to trailers. They're not where you want them to be. You've got to balance the empty ones back to where you can reload them. And that's known as the balance problem, and this influences a lot of the economics of transportation. Then we talked about the three basic networks that any transportation system is comprised of. The physical network-- that's the actual road where the product is actually moving-- the operational network is nodes and arcs, where each node is a decision where I make a decision on what I do next. And then we talked about the strategic and service network, and this is the path view from initial origin to the final destination. Every possible routing through is one path. And that's where I consolidate and look at the total cost, all the different service aspects, and I make a decision. Because at the end of the day, what we talked about is making a mode or route selection, and it's simply a trade-off between the cost of that option and the different levels of service. Costs are pretty straightforward, but a level of service could be the average amount of time. It could be the variability of time. It could be the frequency of delivery. It could be the damage rate. There are many different levels of service. In fact, this is another one of the challenges, is that level of service is multifaceted. There are many, many dimensions. And it's in the eye of the beholder. What do I mean? Each shipper, each receiver, each company has a different set of priorities when it comes to level of service. So our trade-off is between cost-- which everyone knows how to measure cost-- and this very wide-ranging definition of what a level of service. So in the next lectures, we're really going to focus on here in the level of service and how this different transportation decisions impact the larger supply chain implications. So if you have any questions or comments, please use the discussion. And then we'll start talking in the next lecture about how to go a little deeper into the transportation decisions.
