TITLE: Practice Final Exam 3

8.03SC Physics III: Vibrations and Waves
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Fall 2016
Practice Final Exam 3 (covers Lectures 1-23)


Problem 5.1 (30 pts)

Answer each conceptual question separately. Each is worth 5 pts.

(a) Circularly polarized light of intensity I₀ is incident on a filter that transmits one linear polarization. What is the transmitted intensity?
(b) Electronics used at the LHC accelerator uses 1 ns square pulses. What is the approximate range of frequencies (bandwidth) required to send such pulses?
(c) Deep water waves dispersion relation is ω = √(gk). What are the phase and group velocities and what is their relative magnitude at a given k?
(d) A green laser (λ = 500 nm) is set up on the Moon, sending a light beam towards the Earth. What is the approximate size of the light spot on the Earth's surface if the width of the laser beam on the Moon is 1 meter and the distance between the Moon and the Earth is 380,000 km? The beam is diffraction limited.
(e) You are sitting upright on the beach near a lake on a sunny day wearing your Polaroid sunglasses. When you lie down on your side, facing the lake, the sunglasses don't work as well as they did while you were sitting upright. Why not?
(f) Suppose monochromatic light falls on a diffraction grating. What happens to the pattern of principle maxima if the same light falls on a grating that has more lines per centimeter? What happens to the pattern of principle maxima if a longer-wavelength light falls on the same grating?


Problem 5.2 (30 pts)

A particle of mass m and charge q is constrained to move without friction along the x̂ direction. The particle is illuminated by a traveling electromagnetic plane wave with the associated B-field:

    B⃗_wave(r⃗, t) = B₀(ŷ + u ẑ) cos(kz − ωt)

where B₀ is constant and u is an unknown (constant) parameter. The wave is traveling in open space.

(a) Calculate the parameter u, justify the calculation.
(b) Write down the electric field of the incoming wave E⃗_wave(r⃗, t).
(c) Calculate the acceleration a⃗(t) of the charge q. You may neglect any energy losses in calculating the motion of the charge.
(d) Derive the electric field E⃗_rad(r⃗, t) radiated by the charge toward the following three positions. What is the polarization in these three locations?

    (1) r⃗ = r x̂
    (2) r⃗ = r ŷ
    (3) r⃗ = r ẑ


Problem 5.3 (40 pts)

A simple grating that has 5 long, narrow slits is glued on top of a block of glass with index of refraction n. A monochromatic source of plane waves illuminates the grating from inside the glass. The wavelength of the light in vacuum is λ. Figure 1 shows a cross section of the grating; the length of the slits is perpendicular to the page. The source is off-axis at an angle θ from the normal to the grating as shown (the sign of θ is important!). The slits are very narrow compared to their separation d and the wavelength of the illuminating light, and the screen is very distant compared to d.

[Figure 1: Grating — cross section, drawn with the grating as a thick vertical opaque barrier standing on the boundary between two half-spaces. The region to the left of the barrier is labelled "Glass" (index n); the region to its right is labelled "Vacuum". The barrier is broken by 5 narrow slits, numbered 1 at the top through 5 at the bottom, evenly spaced a distance d apart; d is marked by short dotted leader lines drawn from slit 1 and from slit 2 out into the vacuum side, with the label d between them. A horizontal dotted line drawn through the middle slit (slit 3) and running left to right across the whole figure is the optical axis, labelled z on the vacuum side. In the glass, five parallel straight rays with arrowheads travel up and to the right, one striking each slit; their common direction makes the angle θ with the z axis, and θ is labelled in the wedge below the z axis just to the left of slit 3, so the incoming rays arrive from below the axis and propagate upward toward it. On the vacuum side a single dashed ray leaves slit 3 travelling up and to the right and terminates on a distant vertical line at the far right of the figure, which is the observation screen; the angle between this dashed outgoing ray and the z axis is labelled ψ. Thus θ (incidence, inside the glass) and ψ (observation, in vacuum) are measured from the same z axis and, as drawn, tilt in the same sense.]

(a) First consider the case where θ = 0. Show, using a simple diagram, that the phase difference δ between rays from adjacent slits which are viewed far away at an angle ψ with respect to the z axis is δ = (2πd/λ) sin ψ.
(b) Now consider an arbitrary θ. What is δ?
(c) Write an expression in terms of d, θ, λ and ψ for the intensity I that will be viewed on the screen.
(d) Sketch the intensity I as a function of sin ψ. Be sure to specify the location of the first interference maxima and minima.
(e) Now consider the same grating with the two outside slits blocked (slits 1 and 5). Write an expression for the intensity observed on the screen.
(f) Make the sketch of the new intensity versus sin ψ and compare it to the sketch obtained for the 5 slits. What are the new locations of the first maxima and minima? How has the magnitude of the maxima changed?
