Session 4 · The Creative Class and Placemaking
Unit II · Lenses — Why and How to Interfere in the Economy?

The Creative Class and Placemaking

What is the Creative Class?
a) Artists and Craftsmen
b) Marx’s fisher in the morning, factory worker in the
afternoon and Plato reader in the evening
c) A class of workers whose job is to create meaningful new
forms
d) Anyone who doesn’t work with their hands

Are these professions in the Creative Class?
Welders
Copy Writers
Lab Workers
Gas Station Attendants
Mid Level Managers
Administrative
Assistants
Chief Executive Officers Chief Operating
Officers
Chief Information
Officers
Baristas
Bartenders
City Planners

Where do they live? Do we want them?
- The three 'T’s:
1. Talent (a highly talented/educated/skilled population),
2. Tolerance (a diverse community, which has a 'live and let live'
ethos), and
3. Technology (the technological infrastructure necessary to fuel an
entrepreneurial culture).
- The Creative Class values meritocracy, diversity and individuality, and
look for these characteristics when they relocate
- Implicit in this is the freedom to relocate and what else?

Why do we want them?
The creative class are a key driving
force for economic development of
post-industrial cities in the United
States, according to Florida.
Are their jobs BASIC or NON-BASIC?
100 new workers need goods and services:
50 additional jobs added
Business Recruited:
100 new jobs added
CENTERVILLE
Job Population:
1000

WHY DO YOU WANT THEM?
- Supposed to be drivers of economic growth in the new
economy
- Many have challenged the evidence on this relationship
- Creative Class may exacerbate gentrification
- Or maybe just correlated with it

Place Based Approaches
People-Based
Approaches
Place-Based
Approaches

Place-Based Economic Development

Placemaking as an Economic Strategy

Union Square, Somerville, MA
- 
One of the oldest neighborhoods in the region
- 
Charlestown “Beyond the Neck”
- 
Major transit hub and service center (88 streetcars a day)
- 
Filled wetlands and river to the southeast converted to
slaughterhouses and industrial uses
- 
By the 1970’s, mostly a cheap alternative to Cambridge

Several Decades of Planning
- 1970s’ “MODELS” transportation program converted streets to one-
way and closed one through street to create Plaza
- Early placemaking effort
- Some success when programmed

First Neighborhood Plan
- Early 2000’s
- City took the lead on a Union Square
plan and programming for activity
- “Spice of Life” festival
- Plan to return streets to two-way
- Enjoyed some activity and interest
but didn’t engage partners

Union Square Main Streets Program
- With City assistance, formed local
main streets program to create
wider partnership
- “What the Fluff?” festival
- Engagement with residents and
businesses

Second Union Square Plan
- In many ways reiterated first plan but tied into broader base
- Also followed new Comprehensive Plan
- Call for return to two-way streets
- Plan for Green Line station
- Bolder in terms of height and density
- Less of a nod to traditional industry
- Timing is everything!

Land Acquisition, Assembly and Disposal
Used state urban
renewal powers
Major push from top
leadership
Discussion about
public benefits
associated with
redevelopment
content is excluded from our Creative

Bronzeville, Chicago

Bronzeville: A Black Metropolis
- Thrived in part because of redlining, as it
became an affluent African-American
neighborhood near downtown
- Hit hard by Great Depression & Urban Renewal
- Robert Taylor Homes was just one of the major
failed public housing developments in the area
- 51st Street Business Association and the Quad
Communities Development Corporation
working to encourage redevelopment
- New housing and retail
- Bronzeville Arts and Recreation Center

Quad Communities Development Corporation
- With support for the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, led 18
month planning process to develop 10 step action plan
- Also one of the City’s Neighborhood Business Development Centers
Their mission is to improve the quality of life and economic
strength of neighborhoods by 3 components:
1) Driving economic development
2) Fostering the improvement of neighborhood schools
3) Supporting and connecting organizations focused on
workforce development, retail attraction/retention, and safety
https://vimeo.com/171132217

Newcastle, Wyoming

Extractive Industries and Recreation
- Heavily reliant on oil and gas production
- Location near Black Hills provides for some recreational opportunities
- Lacking a local group like a Main Streets program to help coalesce
around some successful retail and the natural beauty of the region
- Meanwhile, as new extractive industry jobs come and go, hard to
keep an attention span on changing needs

The Newcastle Area Chamber’s Perspective
“We still believe in the AMERICAN DREAM. We work hard and we play
hard. From our Main Street to our back country roads, in Newcastle,
Wyoming, you’ll find hard working Americans who aren’t afraid to roll
up their sleeves and pursue their dreams. On Friday night, we’re down
at the local football stadium cheering on the home team. Our kids are
raised to remove their hats when the National Anthem is playing. We
still believe our community, our state and our nation have great
potential and we’re willing to do our part seeing it to fruition. We invite
you to visit us on your next vacation, or bring your family and your
business and join us on our quest for a prosperous America.”

Leaving our Preconceptions at the Door
- How does a place like this plan for a modern economy?
- Is there a place for it?
- How to attract a Creative Class, if that’s what you want?

ArtPrize Grand Rapids
- Founded in 2009 by Richard DeVos Jr., local
entrepreneur and son of Betsy DeVos
<<ART HAS NO INHERENT POLITICS!>>
- Annual (moving to biennial) contest for
$250,000 for best public art installation
- 501 (c) (3) organization w/ $32 m. annual
budget – much of which is corporate
funding
- First year, 150 venues displayed the entries
of 1,262 artists from more than forty states
and a dozen countries

Emeryville, CA Public Market
- Former industrial city between
Berkeley and Oakland
- Evolution into large scale retail
and commercial
- Housing emerging as a use
based on proximity to San
Francisco, Oakland and
Berkeley
- Also seen as a hip alternative to
more mainstream Bay Area
communities

- 141,420 square feet
- Provides a community center in a dispersed community
- Financially self-supporting
- $84 million expansion in the works
- Is this just a Mall?
Opened in 1980’s
Renovated 2016
Privately Owned & Managed
