Session 2 · Local Economic Development: Market Intervention Rationales
Unit II · Lenses — Why and How to Interfere in the Economy?

Local Economic Development
Market Intervention Rationales

Environmental Scan: What I Found
1. https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/27/business/gm-detroit-
electric.html
2. https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/04/business/all-electric-green-
development.html
3. https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/05/technology/data-driving-
new-approaches-to-transportation.html

Stepping Back…
- Neoclassical Economics come to dominate capitalist economic
thinking in the 19th Century (though still competing with Marxist
economics and other schools of thought):
1.
People have rational preferences among outcomes
2.
Individuals maximize utility and firms maximize profits
3.
People act independently on the basis of full and relevant information
- John Maynard Keynes challenges the inherently self-adjusting nature
of this theory in the early 20th Century (though not the core of the
ideas):
1. The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money (1936) argues that
government needs to induce demand to increase output
2. Monetary policy can affect the market (interest rates and money supply)
3. Basis of the New Deal

Local Economic Development (LED) Efforts
- Emerge in the US after urban renewal’s top-down
approach
- Nixon administration dismantled (and defunded)
federal efforts and replaced the with the
Community Development Block Grant program
- Allowed Place based approaches
- Better suited to align with urban planning
initiatives
- Some states (including Massachusetts) still run
urban renewal programs
- Popular in developing countries as well

What is Local Economic Development?
Local Economic Development (LED) is the process by which public,
business and nongovernmental sector partners work collectively to
create better conditions for economic growth and employment
generation.
Its purpose is to build up the economic capacity of a local area to
improve its economic future and the quality of life for all.
(LGSP-LED, from World Bank, UN Habitat)

What is Local Economic Development?
Local in LED means:
- Optimizing local resources and local capacities to build local potential
- Driving forces are economic stakeholders in the communities,
municipalities and cities
- Shared benefits are reaped by the community in working together
- While focused on local, there are links to the regional, national and
international levels
(CARILED, 2013)

What is Local Economic Development?
Economic in LED refers to:
- Seizing opportunities and effectively utilizing labor, capital and other
resources to achieve local priorities
- Supporting entrepreneurial initiatives (formal or informal, micro,
small or large)
- Facilitating market access and creating a climate conducive to
investment and business activity
- How these systems might be improved to serve the collective
interests of local communities
(CARILED, 2013)

What is Local Economic Development?
Development in LED means:
- It is holistic, covering not only the economic but also social, political
and cultural aspects
- Being committed to a process to achieve sustainable results
- Economic activities should be mindful of protecting the environment
and quality of life for all
- Strengthening local business to achieve sustainable development
goals
(CARILED, 2013)

What is Local Economic Development?
People-Based
Approaches
Place-Based
Approaches

Place-Based Economic Development

People-Based Economic Development
- Educate, and support access to education through
programs such as child care
- Train, and provide paid training whenever possible
- Provide Housing, as the baseline need for people
- Support, through supports such as counseling

Jane Jacobs and “The Economy of Cities”
- Published in 1969, after “Death and
Life”
- Again challenges many
assumptions based in urban
renewal practice
- This time the timing was more
aligned with conventional wisdom
- “Import and Export, or die,” says
Jane Jacobs

Jane Jacobs and “The Economy of Cities”
- Disagreed with what she characterized as
conventional wisdom that cities formed
after agriculture – instead were the key
to human civilization
- Cities that are a “monoculture” of one
industry will fail
- Replace imports with local production
- “Breakaways” (or spinoffs) help local
economies as well
- What can local government do?

Jane Jacobs and the Role of Government
- “What kinds of government . . . [can keep open] the opportunities for
economic and technological development instead of closing them off?”
“[E]conomic life is ruled by processes and principles we didn't invent and can't
transcend ... and the more we learn of these processes and the better we
respect them, the better our economies will get along.“
- “Even if something is at a dynamic equilibrium, it can only stay that way by
taking new things in all the time. Now this is very important for governments
to understand. They must protect the acceptability in economic life for new
things.”
- “Well, one thing obviously is that governments needed to wake up again to
the importance of anti-trust laws and actions in restraint of trade. They
needed to take them very seriously again after they hadn't been taken very
serious for a while.”

What is a Free Market Anyway?
- Alex Marshall describes an economy that is entirely based on
government interventions
- From the concept of money to the creation of a transportation
system, the market would not be what it is without government
actions.
- “Capitalism and Government Are Friends After All” article in
Bloomberg Opinion, 9/25/12.
- In return, business should support government (eg. Impact fees)
- Or at least government should get due credit.
- This is not “regulation” in the zoning sense.

From Free Markets to Public Markets
“Most cities of any age have
had their version of 'the city
market,' cavernous and often
physically grand buildings of
iron, stone, or wood where
sellers of meat, fish, dairy
goods, and produce would
congregate in stalls and sell
their wares. Such markets were
usually built by the city and
leased out to agricultural
producers and other vendors.”

Some Good Quotes
- “There is no free market. There are only markets, and government
creates them. Markets are diverse in character and have different
rules and boundaries. Whether a market corrupts or make the world
more moral depends on those rules and boundaries. A market where
government establishes a price on Jews' heads obviously corrupts. A
market that establishes a place to buy green beans does not. There
are no 'free' markets, in any meaning of that word, whether free as in
open, or free as in costless.“
- “[O]ur economic system has great costs. Even the freest markets in
the modern era depend on government-provided or paid-for
education and infrastructure, as well as functioning courts and so
forth.”

Jacobs on Marshall?
Does he have more or less faith in government
intervention?
How would she propose public markets be created?
How do you decide what government should do?
Are there ways they agree?

Marshall on Jacobs?
How would he propose government “create” places
like her urban villages?
Would he think she was a NIMBY?
They probably both hate the Robber Barrons- what
did government do wrong there?

Class
Choice
Class?
Traditional
And…?
Place-
Based
Equity
