Key Concepts Document (KCD) — SC1x Supply Chain Fundamentals

2.1
Core Supply Chain Concepts
2.1.1
Summary
Virtually all supply chains are a combination of push and pull systems. A push system is where execution
is performed ahead of an actual order so that the forecasted demand, rather than actual demand, has to be
used in planning. A pull system is where execution is performed in response to an order so that the actual
demand is known with certainty. The point in the process where a supply chain shifts from being push
to pull is sometimes called the push/pull boundary or push/pull point. In manufacturing, the push/pull
point is also known as the decoupling point (DP) or customer order decoupling point (CODP). The CODP
coincides with an important stock point, where the customer order arrives (switching inventory based on
a forecast to actual demand), and also allows to diﬀerentiate basic production systems: make-to-stock,
assemble-to-order, make-to-order, or engineer-to-order.
Postponement is a common strategy to combine the beneﬁts of push (product ready for demand) and
pull (fast customized service) systems. Postponement is where the undiﬀerentiated raw or components
are “pushed” through a forecast, and the ﬁnal ﬁnished and customized products are then “pulled”.
Segmentation is a method of dividing a supply chain into two or more groupings where the supply
chains operate diﬀerently and more eﬃciently and/or eﬀectively. While there are no absolute rules for
segmentation, there are some rules of thumb, such as: items should be homogeneous within the segment
and heterogeneous across segments; there should be critical mass within each segment; and the segments
need to be useful and communicable. A segment only makes sense if it does something diﬀerent (planning,
inventory, transportation etc.) from the other segments. The most common segmentation is for products
using an ABC classiﬁcation.
In an ABC segmentation, the products driving the most revenue (or proﬁt or sales) are Class A items
(the important few). Products driving very little revenue (or proﬁt or sales) are Class C items (the trivial
many), and the products in the middle are Class B. A common breakdown is the top 20% of items (Class
A) generate 80% of the revenue, Class B is 30% of the products generating 15% of the revenue, and the
Class C items generate less than 5% of the revenue while constituting 50% of the items.
Supply chains operate in uncertainty. Demand is never known exactly, for example. In order to handle
and be able to analyze systems with uncertainty, we need to capture the distribution of the variable in
question. When we are describing a random situation, say, the expected demand for pizzas on a Thursday
night, it is helpful to describe the potential outcomes in terms of the central tendency (mean or median) as
well as the dispersion (standard deviation, range). We will often characterize the distribution of potential
outcomes as following a well-known function such as Normal and Poisson.
2.1.2
Key Concepts
Pull vs. Push Process
• Push — work performed in anticipation of an order (forecasted demand)
• Pull — execution performed in response to an order (demand known with certainty)
• Hybrid or Mixed — push raw products, pull ﬁnished product (postponement or delayed diﬀerentiation)
• Push/pull boundary point — point in the process where a supply chain shifts from being push to pull
• In manufacturing, also known as “decoupling point” (DP) or “customer order decoupling point”
(CODP) — the point in the material ﬂow where the product is linked to a speciﬁc customer
• Mass customization / Postponement — to delay the ﬁnal assembly, customization, or diﬀerentiation of
a product until as late as possible
Segmentation
• Diﬀerentiate products in order to match the right supply chain to the right product
Supply Chain Fundamentals
• Products typically segmented on
– Physical characteristics (value, size, density, etc.)
– Demand characteristics (sales volume, volatility, sales duration, etc.)
– Supply characteristics (availability, location, reliability, etc.)
• Rules of thumb for number of segments
– Homogeneous—products within a segment should be similar
– Heterogeneous—products across segments should be very diﬀerent
– Critical Mass—segment should be big enough to be worthwhile
– Pragmatic—segmentation should be useful and communicable
• Demand follows a power law distribution, meaning a large volume of sales is concentrated in few
products
Power Law
The distribution of percent sales volume to percent of SKUs (Stock Keeping Units) tends to follow a
Power Law distribution (y = axk) where y is percent of demand (units or sales or proﬁt), x is percent
of SKUs, and a and k are parameters. The value for k should obviously be less than 1 since if k=1 the
relationship is linear. In addition to segmenting according to products, many ﬁrms segment by customer,
geographic region, or supplier. Segmentation is typically done using revenue as the key driver, but many
ﬁrms also include variability of demand, proﬁtability, and other factors, to include:
• Revenue = Average sales * Unit sales price
• Proﬁt = Average sales * Margin
• Margin = Unit sales price – Unit cost
Handling Uncertainty
Uncertainty of an outcome (demand, transit time, manufacturing yield, etc.) is modeled through a prob-
ability distribution. We discussed two in the lesson: Poisson and Normal.
Normal Distribution ∼N(µ, σ)
This is the Bell Shaped distribution that is widely used by both practitioners and academics. While not
perfect, it is a good place to start for most random variables that you will encounter in practice such as
transit time and demand. The distribution is both continuous (it can take any number, not just integers
or positive numbers) and is symmetric around its mean or average. Being symmetric additionally means
the mean is also the median and the mode. The common notation that we will use to indicate that some
value follows a Normal Distribution is ∼N(µ, σ) where mu, µ , is the mean and sigma, σ, is the standard
deviation. Some books use the notation ∼N(µ, σ) showing the variance, σ2, instead of the standard
deviation. Just be sure which notation is being followed when you consult other texts.
The normal distribution is formally deﬁned as:
fx(x0) = e
−(x0−µ)2
2σ2x
σx
√
2π
We will also make use of the Unit Normal or Standard Normal Distribution. This is ∼N(0,1) where
the mean is zero and the standard deviation is 1 (as is the variance, obviously). The chart below shows
FIGURE 2.1: Standard Normal Distribution
the standard or unit normal distribution. We will be making use of the transformation from any Normal
Distribution to the Unit Normal (See Figure 1).
We will make extensive use of spreadsheets (whether Excel or LibreOﬃce) to calculate probabilities
under the Normal Distribution. The following functions are helpful:
• In Excel 2007 and above, NORM.DIST(x, µ, σ, true) = the probability that a random variable is less
than or equal to x under the Normal Distribution ∼N(µ, σ). So, that NORM.DIST(25, 20, 3, 1) =
0.952 which means that there is a 95.2% probability that a number from this distribution will be less
than 25. For Excel 2003, use the above function without the period, i.e, NORMDIST(25, 20, 3, 1).
• In Excel 2007 and above, NORM.INV(probability, µ, σ) = the value of x where the probability that a
random variable is less than or equal to it is the speciﬁed probability. So, NORM.INV(0.952, 20, 3) =
25. For Excel 2003, use the above function without the period, i.e NORMINV(0.952, 20, 3).
To use the Unit Normal Distribution ∼N(0,1) we need to transform the given distribution by cal-
culating a k value where k=(x - µ)/σ. This is sometimes called a z value in statistics courses, but in
almost all supply chain and inventory contexts it is referred to as a k value. So, in our example, k = (25
– 20)/3 = 1.67. Why do we use the Unit Normal? Well, the k value is a helpful and convenient piece of
information. The k is the number of standard deviations the value x is above (or below if it is negative)
the mean. We will be looking at a number of speciﬁc values for k that are widely used as thresholds in
practice, speciﬁcally:
• Probability (x ≤0.90) where k = 1.28
• Probability (x ≤0.95) where k = 1.645
• Probability (x ≤0.99) where k = 2.33
Because the Normal Distribution is symmetric, there are also some common conﬁdence intervals:
• µ ± σ 68.3% — meaning that 68.3% of the values fall within 1 standard deviation of the mean,
• µ ± 2σ 95.5% — 95.5% of the values fall within 2 standard deviations of the mean, and
• µ ± 3σ 99.7% — 99.7% of the values fall within 3 standard deviations of the mean.
In a spreadsheets you can use the functions:
• NORM.S.DIST(k,1)= the probability that a random variable is less than k units above (or below)
mean. For example, NORM.S.DIST(2.0, 1) = 0.977 meaning the 97.7% of the distribution is less than
2 standard deviations above the mean. For excel 2003, use the function without period, i.e, NOR-
MDIST(k).
Supply Chain Fundamentals
• NORM.S.INV(probability)=
the
value
corresponding
to
the
given
probability.
So
that
NORM.S.INV(0.977) = 2.0. If I then wanted to ﬁnd the value that would cover 97.7% of a speciﬁc
distribution, say where N(279, 46) I would just transform it. Since k=(x - µ)/σ for the transformation,
I can simply solve for x and get: x = µ + kσ = 279 + (2.0)(46) = 371. This means that the random
variable ∼N(279, 46) will be equal or less than 371 for 97.7% of the time. For older versions of Excel,
use NORMSINV(probability).
Poisson distribution ∼Poisson (λ)
We will also use the Poisson (pronounced pwa-SOHN) distribution for modeling things like demand, stock
outs, and other less frequent events. The Poisson, unlike the Normal, is discrete (it can only be integers
≥0), always positive, and non-symmetric. It is skewed right – that is, it has a long right tail. It is very
commonly used for low value distributions or slow moving items. While the Normal Distribution has two
parameters (mu and sigma), the Poisson only has one, lambda, λ.
Formally, the Poisson Distribution is deﬁned as shown below:
p[x0] = Prob[x = x0] = e−λλx0
x0!
for
x0 = 0, 1, 2, ...
F[x0] = Prob[x ≤x0] =
x0
X
x=0
e−λλx
x!
The chart below (Figure 2) shows the Poisson Distribution for λ =3. The Poisson parameter λ is both
the mean and the variance for the distribution! Note that λ does not have to be an integer.
FIGURE 2.2: Poisson Distribution
In spreadsheets, the following functions are helpful:
• POISSON(x0, λ, false) =⇒P(x = x0) = the probability that a random variable is equal to x0 under
the Poisson Distribution ∼P(λ). So, that POISSON(2, 1.56, 0) = 0.256 which means that there is a
25.6% probability that a number from this distribution will be equal to 2.
• POISSON(x0, λ, true) =⇒P(x ≤x0) = the probability that a random variable is less than or equal
to x0 under the Poisson Distribution ∼P(λ). So, that POISSON(2, 1.56, 1) = 0.793 which means that
there is a 79.3% probability that a number from this distribution will be less than or equal to 2. This
is simply just the cumulative distribution function.
Uniform distribution ∼U (a,b)
We will sometimes use the Uniform distribution, which has two parameters: a minimum value a and
a maximum value b. Each point within this range is equally likely to occur. To ﬁnd the cumulative
probability for some value C, the probability that x ≤c = (c −a)/(b −a), that is, the area from a to c
minus the total area from a to b. The expected value or the mean is simply (a + b)/2 while the standard
deviation is = (b −a)/
√
12.
Learning Objectives
• Identify and understand diﬀerences between push and pull systems.
• Understand why and how to segment supply chains by products, customers, etc.
• Ability to model uncertainty in supply chains, primarily, but not exclusively, in demand uncertainty.
References
Push/Pull Processes: Chopra & Meindl Chpt 1; Nahmias Chpt 7; Segmentation: Nahmias Chpt 5; Silver,
Pyke, & Peterson Chpt 3; Ballou Chpt 3 Probability Distributions: Chopra & Meindl Chpt 12; Nahmias
Chpt 5; Silver, Pyke, & Peterson App B
• Fisher, M. (1997) “What Is the Right Supply Chain for Your Product?,” Harvard Business Review.
• Olavson, T., Lee, H. & DeNyse, G. (2010) “A Portfolio Approach to Supply Chain Design,” Supply
Chain Management Review.
2.2
Demand Forecasting
2.2.1
Summary
Forecasting is one of three components of an organization’s Demand Planning, Forecasting, and Manage-
ment process. Demand Planning answers the question “What should we do to shape and create demand
for our product?” and concerns things like promotions, pricing, packaging, etc. Demand Forecasting then
answers “What should we expect demand for our product to be given the demand plan in place?” The ﬁ-
nal component, Demand Management, answers the question, “How do we prepare for and act on demand
when it materializes?” This concerns things like Sales& Operations Planning (S&OP) and balancing
supply and demand.
Within the Demand Forecasting component, you can think of three levels, each with its own time
horizon and purpose. Strategic forecasts (years) are used for capacity planning, investment strategies,
etc. Tactical forecasts (weeks to months to quarters) are used for sales plans, short-term budgets, inven-
tory planning, labor planning, etc. Finally, operations forecasts (hours to days) are used for production,
transportation, and inventory replenishment decisions. The time frame of the action dictates the time
horizon of the forecast.
Forecasting methods can be divided into being subjective (most often used by marketing and sales)
or objective (most often used by production and inventory planners). Subjective methods can be further
divided into being either Judgemental (someone somewhere knows the truth), such as sales force surveys,
Delphi sessions, or expert opinions, or Experimental (sampling local and then extrapolating), such as
customer surveys, focus groups, or test marketing. Objective methods are either Causal (there is an
underlying relationship or reason) such as leading indicators, etc. or Time Series (there are patterns in
the demand) such as exponential smoothing, moving average, etc. All methods have their place and their
role. We will spend a lot of time on the objective methods but will also discuss the subjective ones as
well.
Regardless of the forecasting method used, you will want to measure the quality of the forecast. The
two major dimensions of quality are bias (a persistent tendency to over- or under-predict) and accuracy
Supply Chain Fundamentals
(closeness to the actual observations). No single metric does a good job capturing both dimensions, so it
is worth having multiple.
2.2.2
Key Concepts
Forecasting Truisms
1.
Forecasts are always wrong – Yes, point forecasts will never be completely perfect. The solution
is to not rely totally on point forecasts. Incorporate ranges into your forecasts. Also you should
try to capture and track the forecast errors so that you can sense and measure any drift or
changes.
2.
Aggregated forecasts are more accurate than dis-aggregated forecasts
– The idea is that com-
bining diﬀerent items leads to a pooling eﬀect that will in turn lessen the variability. The
peaks balance out the valleys. The coeﬃcient of variation (CV) is commonly used to measure
variability and is deﬁned as the standard deviation over the mean (CV=σ/µ). Forecasts are
generally aggregated by SKU (a family of products versus an individual one), time (demand
over a month versus over a single day), or location (demand for a region versus a single store).
3.
Shorter horizon forecasts are more accurate than longer horizon forecasts – Essentially this
means that forecasting tomorrow’s temperature (or demand) is easier and probably more ac-
curate than forecasting for a year from tomorrow. This is not the same as aggregating. It is
all about the time between making the forecast and the event happening. Shorter is always
better. This is where postponement and modularization helps. If we can somehow shorten the
forecasting time for an end item, we will generally be more accurate.
Forecasting Metrics
There is a cost trade-oﬀbetween cost of errors in forecasting and cost of quality forecasts that must be
balanced. Forecast metric systems should capture bias and accuracy.
Notation:
At: Actual value for observation t
Ft: Forecasted value for observation t
et: Error for observation t, et = At −Ft
n: number of observations
µ: mean
σ: standard deviation
CV: Coeﬃcient of Variation – a measure of volatility – CV= σ
µ
Formulas:
Mean Deviation: MD=
Pn
t=1 et
n
Mean Absolute Deviation: MAD=
Pn
t=1 |et|
n
Mean Squared Error: MSE=
Pn
t=1 et
n
Root Mean Squared Error: RMSE=
q Pn
t=1 et2
n
Mean Percent Error: MPE=
Pn
t=1
et
At
n
Mean Absolute Percent Error: MAPE=
Pn
t=1
|et|
At
n
Statistical Aggregation: σ2
agg = σ2
1 + σ2
2 + σ2
3 + ... + σ2
n
σagg =
p
σ2
1 + σ2
2 + σ2
3 + ... + σ2n
µagg = µ1 + µ2 + µ3 + ... + µn
Statistical Aggregation of n Distributions of Equal Mean and Variance:
σagg =
p
σ2
1 + σ2
2 + σ2
3 + ... + σ2n = σind
√n
µagg = µ1 + µ2 + µ3 + ... + µn = nµind
CVagg = σ√n
µn =
σ
µ√n = CVind
√n
2.2.3
Time Series Analysis
Time Series is an extremely widely used forecasting technique for mid-range forecasts for items that have
a long history or record of demand. Time series is essentially pattern matching of data that are distributed
over time. For this reason, you tend to need a lot of data to be able to capture the components or patterns.
Business cycles are more suited to longer range, strategic forecasting time horizons. Three important time
series models:
• Cumulative – where everything matters and all data are included. This results in a very calm forecast
that changes very slowly over time – thus it is more stable than responsive.
• Na¨ıve – where only the latest data point matters. This results in very nervous or volatile forecast that
can change quickly and dramatically – thus it is more responsive than stable.
• Moving Average – where we can select how much data to use (the last M periods). This is essentially
the generalized form for both the Cumulative (M = ∞) and Na¨ıve (M=1) models.
All three of these models are similar in that they assume stationary demand. Any trend in the
underlying data will lead to severe lagging. These models also apply equal weighting to each piece of
information that is included. Interestingly, while the M-Period Moving Average model requires M data
elements for each SKU being forecast, the Na¨ıve and Cumulative models only require 1 data element
each.
Components of time series
• Level (a)
– Value where demand hovers (mean)
– Captures scale of the time series
– With no other pattern present, it is a constant value
• Trend (b)
– Rate of growth or decline
– Persistent movement in one direction
Supply Chain Fundamentals
FIGURE 2.3: Level (a)
FIGURE 2.4: Trend (b)
– Typically linear but can be exponential, quadratic, etc.
• Season Variations (F)
– Repeated cycle around a known and ﬁxed period
– Hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, etc. direction
– Can be caused by natural or man-made forces
FIGURE 2.5: Season Variations (F)
• Random Fluctuation (e or ε)
– Remainder of variability after other components
– Irregular and unpredictable variations, noise
Notation:
xt: Actual demand in period t
ˆxt,t+1 : Forecast for time t+1 made during time t
a: Level component
b: Linear trend component
Ft: Season index appropriate for period t
et: Error for observation t, et = At −Ft
t: Time period (0, 1, 2,. . . n)
Level Model: xt = a + et
Trend Model: xt = a + bt + et
Mix Level-Seasonality Model: xt = aFt + et
Mix Level-Trend-Seasonality Model: xt = (a + bt)Ft + et
Formulas:
Time Series Models (Stationary Demand only):
Cumulative Model: ˆxt,t+1 =
Pt
i xi
t
Na¨ıve Model: ˆxt,t+1 = xt
M-Period Moving Average Forecast Model: ˆxt,t+1 =
Pt
i=t+1−M xi
M
• If M=t, we have the cumulative model where all data is included
• If M=1, we have the na¨ıve model, where the last data point is used to predict the next data point
2.2.4
Exponential Smoothing
Exponential smoothing, as opposed to Cumulative, Na¨ıve, and Moving Average, treats data diﬀerently
depending on its age. The idea is that the value of data degrades over time so that newer observations of
demand are weighted more heavily than older observations. The weights decrease exponentially as they
age. Exponential models simply blend the value of new and old information.
The alpha factor (ranging between 0 and 1) determines the weighting for the newest information versus
the older information. The “α” value indicates the value of “new” information versus “old” information:
• As α →1 , the forecast becomes more nervous, volatile, and na¨ıve
• As α →0 , the forecast
• t becomes more calm, staid, and cumulative
• α can range from 0 ≤α ≤1, but in practice, we typically see 0 ≤α ≤0.3
The most basic exponential model, or Simple Exponential model, assumes stationary demand. Holt’s
Model is a modiﬁed version of exponential smoothing that also accounts for trend in addition to level. A
new smoothing parameter, β, is introduced. It operates in the same way as the α.
We can also use exponential smoothing to dampen trend models to account for the fact that trends
usually do not remain unchanged indeﬁnitely as well as for creating a more stable estimate of the forecast
errors.
Supply Chain Fundamentals
Notation:
xt : Actual demand in period t
xt,t+1 : Forecast for time t+1 made during time t
α : Exponential smoothing factor for level (0 ≤α ≤1)
β : Exponential smoothing factor for trend (0 ≤β ≤1)
φ : Exponential smoothing factor for dampening (0 ≤φ ≤1)
ω : Mean Square Error trending factor (0.01 ≤ω ≤0.1)
Formulas:
Simple Exponential Smoothing Model (Level Only) – This model is used for stationary demand.
The “new” information is simply the latest observation. The “old” information is the most recent forecast
since it encapsulates the older information.
ˆxt,t+1 = αxt + (1 −α)ˆxt−1,t
Exponential Smoothing for Level & Trend – also known as Holt’s Method, assumes a linear
trend. The forecast for time t+τ made at time t is shown below. It is a combination of the latest estimates
of the level and trend. For the level, the new information is the latest observation and the old information
is the most recent forecast for that period – that is, the last period’s estimate of level plus the last period’s
estimate of trend. For the trend, the new information is the diﬀerence between the most recent estimate
of the level minus the second most recent estimate of the level. The old information is simply the last
period’s estimate of the trend.
ˆxt,t+τ = ˆat + τˆbt
ˆat = αxt + (1 −α)(ˆat−1 + ˆbt−1)
ˆbt = β(ˆat −ˆat−1) + (1 −β)ˆbt−1
Damped Trend Model with Level and Trend – We can use exponential smoothing to dampen
a linear trend to better reﬂect the tapering eﬀect of trends in practice.
ˆxt,t+τ = ˆat +
τ
X
i
ϕiˆbt
ˆat = αxt + (1 −α)(ˆat−1 + ϕˆbt−1)
ˆbt = β(ˆat −ˆat−1) + (1 −β)ϕˆbt−1
Mean Square Error Estimate – We can also use exponential smoothing to provide a more robust
or stable value for the mean square error of the forecast.
MSEt = ω(xt −ˆxt−1,t)2 + (1 −ω)MSEt−1
2.2.5
Exponential Smoothing with Holt-Winter
Seasonality
• For multiplicative seasonality, think of the Fi as “percent of average demand” for a period i
• The sum of the Fi for all periods within a season must equal P
• Seasonality factors must be kept current or they will drift dramatically. This requires a lot more book-
keeping, which is tricky to maintain in a spreadsheet, but it is important to understand
Forecasting Model Parameter Initialization Methods
• While there is no single best method, there are many good ones
• Simple Exponential Smoothing
– Estimate level parameter a0 by averaging demand for ﬁrst several periods
• Holt Model (trend and level)—must estimate both a0 and b0
– Find a best ﬁt linear equation from initial data
– Use least squares regression of demand for several periods variations, noise
∗Dependent variable = demand in each time period = xt
∗Independent variable = slope = β1
∗Regression equation: xt = β0 + β1t
• Seasonality Models
– Much more complicated, you need at least two season of data but preferably four or more
– First determine the level for each common season period and then the demand for all periods
– Set initial seasonality indices to ratio of each season to all periods
Notation:
xt : Actual demand in period t
xt,t+1 : Forecast for time t+1 made during time t
α : Exponential smoothing factor (0 ≤α ≤1)
β : Exponential smoothing trend factor (0 ≤β ≤1)
γ : Seasonality smoothing factor (0 ≤γ ≤1)
Ft : Multiplicative seasonal index appropriate for period t
P : Number of time periods within the seasonality (note: PP
i=1 ˆFi = P )
Forecasting Models
Holt-Winter Exponential Smoothing Model (Level, Trend, and Seasonality) – This model
assumes a linear trend with a multiplicative seasonality eﬀect over both level and trend. For the level
estimate, the new information is again the “de-seasoned” value of the latest observation, while the old
information is the old estimate of the level and trend. The estimate for the trend is the same as for the
Holt model. The Seasonality estimate is the same as the Double Exponential smoothing model.
ˆxt,t+τ = ( ˆat + τˆbt) ˆFt+τ−P
ˆat = α( xt
ˆFt−P
) + (1 −α)(ˆat−1 + ˆbt−1)
ˆbt = β(ˆat −ˆat−1) + (1 −β)ˆbt−1
ˆFt = γ(xt
ˆat
) + (1 −γ) ˆFt−P
Double Exponential Smoothing (Seasonality and Level) – This is a multiplicative model in
that the seasonality for each period is the product of the level and that period’s seasonality factor. The
new information for the estimate of the level is the “de-seasoned” value of the latest observation; that
is, you are trying to remove the seasonality factor. The old information is simply the previous most
recent estimate for level. For the seasonality estimate, the new information is the “de-leveled” value of
Supply Chain Fundamentals
the latest observation; that is, you try to remove the level factor to understand any new seasonality. The
old information is simply the previous most recent estimate for that period’s seasonality.
ˆxt,t+τ = ˆat ˆFt+τ−P
ˆat = α( xt
ˆFt−P
) + (1 −α)(ˆat−1)
ˆFt = γ(xt
ˆat
) + (1 −γ) ˆFt−P
Normalizing Seasonality Indices – This should be done after each forecast to ensure the season-
ality does not get out of synch. If the indices are not updated, they will drift dramatically. Most software
packages will take care of this – but it is worth checking.
ˆF NEW
t
= ˆF OLD
t

P
Pt
i=t+1−P ˆF OLD
i

2.2.6
Special Cases
There are diﬀerent types of new products and the forecasting techniques diﬀer according to their type.
The fundamental idea is that if you do not have any history to rely on, you can look for history of similar
products and build one.
When the demand is very sparse, such as for spare parts, we cannot use traditional methods since the
estimates tend to ﬂuctuate dramatically. Croston’s method can smooth out the estimate for the demand.
New Product Types
• Not all new products are the same. We can roughly classify them into the following six categories (listed
from easiest to forecast to hardest):
– Cost Reductions: Reduced price version of the product for the existing market
– Product Repositioning: Taking existing products/services to new markets or applying them to a
new purpose (aspirin from pain killer to reducing eﬀects of a heart attack)
– Line Extensions: Incremental innovations added to complement existing product lines (Vanilla
Coke, Coke Zero) or Product Improvements: New, improved versions of existing oﬀering targeted
to the current market—replaces existing products (next generation of product)
– New-to-Company: New market/category for the company but not to the market (Apple iPhone or
iPod)
– New-to-World: First of their kind, creates new market, radically diﬀerent (Sony Walkman, Post-it
notes, etc.)
• While they are a pain to forecast and to launch, ﬁrms introduce new products all the time – this is
because they are the primary way to increase revenue and proﬁts (See Figure 6)
New Product Development Process
All ﬁrms use some version of the process shown below to introduce new products. This is sometimes
called the stage-gate or funnel process. The concept is that lots of ideas come in on the left and very few
ﬁnal products come out on the right. Each stage or hurdle in the process winnows out the winners from
the losers and is used to focus attention on the right products. The scope and scale of forecasting changes
along the process as noted in Figure 7.
FIGURE 2.6: New product introductions
Source: Adapted from Cooper, Robert (2001) Winning at New Products, Kahn, Kenneth (2006) New
Product forecasting, and PDMA (2004) New Product Development Report.)
FIGURE 2.7: New product development process
Forecasting Models Discussed
New Product – “Looks-Like” or Analogous Forecasting
• Perform by looking at comparable product launches and create a week-by-week or month-by-month
sales record.
• Then use the percent of total sales in each time increment as a trajectory guide.
• Each launch should be characterized by product type, season of introduction, price, target market
demographics, and physical characteristics.
Intermittent or Sparse Demand – Croston’s Method
• Used for products that are infrequently ordered in large quantities, irregularly ordered, or ordered in
diﬀerent sizes.
• Croston’s Method separates out the demand and model—unbiased and has lower variance than simple
smoothing.
Supply Chain Fundamentals
• Cautions: infrequent ordering (and updating of model) induces a lag to responding to magnitude
changes.
Notation:
xt : Demand in period t
yt : 1 if transaction occurs in period t, =0 otherwise
zt : Size (magnitude) of transaction in time t
nt : Number of periods since last transaction
α : Smoothing parameter for magnitude
β : Smoothing parameter for transaction frequency
Formulas
Croston’s Method
We can use Croston’s method when demand is intermittent. It allows us to use the traditional expo-
nential smoothing methods. We assume the Demand Process is xt = ytzt and that demand is independent
between time periods, so that the probability that a transaction occurs in the current time period is 1/n:
Prob(yt = 1) = 1
n
and
Prob(yt = 0) = 1 −1
n
Updating Procedure for ˆzt and ˆnt:
If xt = 0 (no transaction occurs), then
ˆzt = ˆzt−1
and
ˆnt = ˆnt−1
If xt > 0 (transaction occurs), then
ˆzt = αxt + (1 −α)ˆzt−1
ˆnt = βnt + (1 −β)ˆnt−1
Updating Procedure for nt:
nt=

if
xt−1 > 0
nt−1 + 1
if
xt−1 = 0
Forecast:
ˆxt,t+1 = ˆzt
ˆnt
Learning Objectives
• Forecasting is part of the entire Demand Planning and Management process.
• Range forecasts are better than point forecasts, aggregated forecasts are better than dis-aggregated,
and shorter time horizons are better than longer.
• Forecasting metrics need to capture bias and accuracy.
• Understand how to initialize a forecast.
• Understand that Time Series is a useful technique when we believe demand follows certain repeating
patterns.
• Recognize that all time series models make a trade-oﬀbetween being na¨ıve (using only the last most
recent data) or cumulative (using all of the available data).
• Understand how exponential smoothing treats old and new information diﬀerently.
• Understand how changing the alpha or beta smoothing factors inﬂuences the forecasts.
• Understand how seasonality can be handled within exponential smoothing.
• Understand why demand for new products need to be forecasted with diﬀerent techniques.
• Learn how to use basic Diﬀusion Models for new product demand and how to forecast intermittent
demand using Croston’s Method.
• Understand how the typical new product pipeline process (stage-.-gate) works and how forecasting ﬁts
in.
References
General Demand Forecasting
• Makridakis, Spyros, Steven C. Wheelwright, and Rob J. Hyndman. Forecasting: Methods and Applica-
tions. New York, NY: Wiley, 1998. ISBN 9780471532330.
• Hyndman, Rob J. and George Athanasopoulos. Forecasting: Principles and Practice. OTexts, 2014.
ISBN 0987507109.
• Gilliland, Michael. The Business Forecasting Deal: Exposing Bad Practices and Providing Practical
Solutions. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley, 2010. ISBN 0470574437.
Within the texts mentioned earlier: Silver, Pyke, and Peterson Chapter 4.1; Chopra & Meindl Chapter
7.1-7.4; Nahmias Chapter 2.1-2.6.
Also, I recommend checking out the Institute of Business Forecasting & Planning (https://ibf.org/) and
their Journal of Business Forecasting.
For Time Series Analysis
Within the texts mentioned earlier: Silver, Pyke, and Peterson Chapter 4.2-5.5.1 & 4.6; Chopra & Meindl
Chapter 7.5-7.6; Nahmias Chapter 2.7.
Also, I recommend checking out the Institute of Business Forecasting & Planning (https://ibf.org/) and
their Journal of Business Forecasting.
• Makridakis, Spyros, Steven C. Wheelwright, and Rob J. Hyndman.Forecasting: Methods and Applica-
tions. New York, NY: Wiley, 1998. ISBN 9780471532330.
• Hyndman, Rob J. and George Athanasopoulos. Forecasting: Principles and Practice. OTexts, 2014.
ISBN 0987507109.
For Exponential Smoothing
• Silver, E.A., Pyke, D.F., Peterson, R. Inventory Management and Production Planning and Scheduling.
ISBN: 978-0471119470. Chapter 4.
• Chopra, Sunil, and Peter Meindl. Supply Chain Management: Strategy, Planning, and Operation. 5th
edition, Pearson Prentice Hall, 2013. Chapter 7.
• Nahmias, S. Production and Operations Analysis. McGraw-Hill International Edition. ISBN: 0-07-
2231265-3. Chapter 2.
For Special Cases
• Cooper, Robert G. Winning at New Products: Accelerating the Process from Idea to Launch. Cam-
bridge, MA: Perseus Pub., 2001. Print.
• Kahn, Kenneth B. New Product Forecasting: An Applied Approach. Armonk, NY: M.E. Sharpe, 2006.
• Adams, Marjorie. PDMA Foundation NPD Best Practices Study: The PDMA Foundation’s 2004 Com-
parative Performance Assessment Study (CPAS). Oak Ridge
Supply Chain Fundamentals
2.3
Inventory Management
2.3.1
Summary
Inventory management is at the core of all supply chain and logistics management. There are many
reasons for holding inventory including minimizing the cost of controlling a system, buﬀering against
uncertainties in demand, supply, delivery and manufacturing, as well as covering the time required for
any process. Having inventory allows for a smoother operation in most cases since it alleviates the need
to create product from scratch for each individual demand. Inventory is the result of a push system where
the forecast determines how much inventory of each item is required.
There is, however, a problem with having too much inventory. Excess inventory can lead to spoilage,
obsolescence, and damage. Also, spending too much on inventory limits the resources available for other
activities and investments. Inventory analysis is essentially the determination of the right amount of
inventory of the right product in the right location in the right form. Strategic decisions cover the inventory
implications of product and network design. Tactical decisions cover deployment and determine what
items to carry, in what form (raw materials, work-in-process, ﬁnished goods, etc.), and where. Finally,
operational decisions determine the replenishment policies (when and how much) of these inventories.
We seek the Order Replenishment Policy that minimizes these total costs and speciﬁcally the Total
Relevant Costs (TRC). A cost component is considered relevant if it impacts the decision at hand and we
can control it by some action. A Replenishment Policy essentially states two things: the quantity to be
ordered, and when it should be ordered. As we will see, the exact form of the Total Cost Equation used
depends on the assumptions we make in terms of the situation. There are many diﬀerent assumptions
inherent in any of the models we will use, but the primary assumptions are made concerning the form of
the demand for the product (whether it is constant or variable, random or deterministic, continuous or
discrete, etc.).
2.3.2
Key Concepts
Reasons to Hold Inventory
• Cover process time
• Allow for uncoupling of processes
• Anticipation/Speculationelayed diﬀerentiation)
• Minimize control costs
• Buﬀer against uncertainties such as demand, supply, delivery, and manufacturing
Inventory Decisions
• Strategic supply chain decisions are long term and include decisions related to the supply chain such
as potential alternatives to holding inventory and product design.
• Tactical are made within a month, a quarter or a year and are known as deployment decisions such as
what items to carry as inventory, in what form to carry items and how much of each item to hold and
where.
• Operational level decisions are made on daily, weekly or monthly basis and replenishment decisions
such as how often to review inventory status, how often to make replenishment decisions and how large
replenishment should be. The replenishment decisions are critical to determine how the supply chain is
set up.
Inventory Classiﬁcation
• Financial/Accounting Categories: Raw Materials, Work in Progress (WIP), Components/Semi-Finished
Goods and Finished Goods. This category does not help in tracking opportunity costs and how one
may wish to manage inventory.
• Functional (See Figure 8):
– Cycle Stock – Amount of inventory between deliveries or replenishments
– Safety Stock – Inventory to cover or buﬀer against uncertainties
– Pipeline Inventory – Inventory when order is placed but has not yet arrived
FIGURE 2.8: Inventory chart: Depiction of functional inventory classiﬁcations
Relevant Costs
The Total Cost (TC) equation is typically used to make the decisions of how much inventory to hold and
how to replenish. It is the sum of the Purchasing, Ordering, Holding, and Shortage costs. The Purchasing
costs are usually variable or per-item costs and cover the total landed cost for acquiring that product –
whether from internal manufacturing or purchasing it from outside.
Total cost = Purchase (Unit Value) Cost + Order (Set Up) Cost + Holding (Carrying) Cost +
Shortage (stock-out) Cost
• Purchase: Cost per item or total landed cost for acquiring product.
• Ordering: It is a ﬁxed cost and contains cost to place, receive and process a batch of good including
processing invoicing, auditing, labor, etc. In manufacturing this is the set up cost for a run.
• Holding: Costs required to hold inventory such as storage cost (warehouse space), service costs (in-
surance, taxes), risk costs (lost, stolen, damaged, obsolete), and capital costs (opportunity cost of
alternative investment).
• Shortage: Costs of not having an item in stock (on-hand inventory) to satisfy a demand when it occurs,
including backorder, lost sales, lost customers, and disruption costs. Also known as the penalty cost.
A cost is relevant if it is controllable and it applies to the speciﬁc decision being made.
Supply Chain Fundamentals
Notation:
c : Purchase cost ($/unit)
ct : Ordering Costs ($/order)
h : Holding rate – usually expressed as a percentage ($/$ value/time)
ce : Excess holding Costs ($/unit-time); also equal to ch
cs : Shortage costs ($/unit)
TRC : Total Relevant Costs – the sum of the relevant cost components
TC : Total Costs – the sum of all four cost elements
2.3.3
Economic Order Quantity (EOQ)
The Economic Order Quantity or EOQ is the most inﬂuential and widely used (and sometimes misused!)
inventory model in existence. While very simple, it provides deep and useful insights. Essentially, the
EOQ is a trade-oﬀbetween ﬁxed (ordering) and variable (holding) costs. It is often called Lot-Sizing as
well. The minimum of the Total Cost equation (when assuming demand is uniform and deterministic) is
the EOQ or Q∗. The Inventory Replenishment Policy becomes “Order Q∗every T ∗time periods” which
under our assumptions is the same as “Order Q∗when Inventory Position (IP)=0”.
Like Wikipedia, the EOQ is a GREAT place to start, but not necessarily a great place to ﬁnish. It is a
good ﬁrst estimate because it is exceptionally robust. For example, a 50% increase in Q over the optimal
quantity (Q∗) only increases the TRC by ∼8%!
While very insightful, the EOQ model should be used with caution as it has restrictive assumptions
(uniform and deterministic demand). It can be safely used for items with relatively stable demand and
is a good ﬁrst-cut “back of the envelope” calculation in most situations. It is helpful to develop insights
in understanding the trade-oﬀs involved with taking certain managerial actions, such as lowering the
ordering costs, lowering the purchase price, changing the holding costs, etc.
EOQ Model
• Assumptions
– Demand is uniform and deterministic.
– Lead time is instantaneous (0) – although this is not restrictive at all since the lead time, L, does
not inﬂuence the Order Size, Q.
– Total amount ordered is received.
• Inventory Replenishment Policy
– Order Q∗units every T ∗time periods.
– Order Q∗units when inventory on hand (IOH) is zero.
• Essentially, the Q∗is the Cycle Stock for each replenishment cycle. It is the expected demand for that
amount of time between order deliveries.
Notation:
c : Purchase cost ($/unit)
ct : Ordering Costs ($/order)
ce : Excess holding Costs ($/unit/time); equal to ch
cs : Shortage costs ($/unit)
D : Demand (units/time)
DA : Actual Demand (units/time)
DF : Forecasted Demand (units/time)
h : Carrying or holding cost ($/inventory $/time)
Q : Replenishment Order Quantity (units/order)
Q∗: Optimal Order Quantity under EOQ (units/order)
Q∗
A : Optimal Order Quantity with Actual Demand (units/order)
Q∗
F : Optimal Order Quantity with Forecasted Demand (units/order)
T : Order Cycle Time (time/order)
T ∗: Optimal Time between Replenishments (time/order)
N : Orders per Time or 1/T (order/time)
TRC(Q) : Total Relevant Cost ($/time)
TC(Q) : Total Cost ($/time)
Formulas
Total Costs: TC = Purchase + Order + Holding + Shortage
This is the generic total cost equation. The speciﬁc form of the diﬀerent elements depends on the
assumptions made concerning the demand, the shortage types, etc.
TC(Q) = cD + ct
D
Q + ce
Q
2 + csE[UnitsShort]
Total Relevant Costs: TRC = Order + Holding
The purchasing cost and the shortage costs are not relevant for the EOQ because the purchase price
does not change the optimal order quantity (Q*) and since we have deterministic demand, we will not
stock out.
TRC(Q) = ct
D
Q + ce
Q
Optimal Order Quantity (Q∗)
Recall that this is the First Order condition of the TRC equation – where it is a global minimum.
Q∗=
r
2ctD
ce
Optimal Time between Replenishments
Recall that T ∗= Q∗/D. That is, the time between orders is the optimal order size divided by the
annual demand. Similarly, the number of replenishments per year is simply N ∗= 1/T ∗= D/Q∗. Plugging
in the actual Q∗gives you the formula below.
T ∗=
r
2ct
Dce
Note: Be sure to put T ∗into units that make sense (days, weeks, months, etc.). Don’t leave it in years!
Optimal Total Costs
Adding the purchase cost to the TRC(Q∗) costs gives you the TC(Q∗). We still assume no stock out
costs.
TC(Q∗) = cD +
p
2ctceD
Optimal Total Relevant Costs
Plugging the Q∗back into the TRC equation and simplifying gives you the formula below.
Supply Chain Fundamentals
TRC(Q∗) =
p
2ctceD
Sensitivity Analysis
The EOQ is very robust. The following formulas provide simple ways of calculating the impact of
using a non-optimal Q, an incorrect annual Demand D, or a non-optimal time interval, T.
EOQ Sensitivity with Respect to Order Quantity
The equation below calculates the percent diﬀerence in total relevant costs to optimal when using a
non-optimal order quantity (Q):
TRC(Q)
TRC(Q∗) =
1
 Q∗
Q + Q
Q∗

Note: If optimal quantity does not make sense, it is always better to order little more rather ordering
little less.
EOQ Sensitivity with Respect to Demand
The equation below calculates the percent diﬀerence in total relevant costs to optimal when assuming an
incorrect annual demand (DF ) when in fact the actual annual demand is DA:
TRC(Q∗
F )
TRC(Q∗
A) =
1
 r
DA
DF
+
r
DF
DA
!
EOQ Sensitivity with Respect to Time Interval between Orders
The equation below calculates the percent diﬀerence in total relevant costs to optimal when using a
non-optimal replenishment time interval (T). This will become very important when ﬁnding realistic
replenishment intervals. The Power of Two Policy shows that ordering in increments of 2k time periods,
we will stay within 6% of the optimal solution. For example, if the base time period is one week, then
the Power of Two Policy would suggest ordering every week (20) or every two weeks (21) or every four
weeks (22) or every eight weeks (23) etc. Select the interval closest to one of these increments.
TRC(T)
TRC(T ∗) =
1
  T
T ∗+ T ∗
T

2.3.4
Economic Order Quantity (EOQ) Extensions
The Economic Order Quantity can be extended to cover many diﬀerent situations, three extensions
include: lead-time, volume discounts, and ﬁnite replenishment or EPQ.
We developed the EOQ previously assuming the rather restrictive (and ridiculous) assumption that
lead-time was zero. That is, instantaneous replenishment like on Star Trek. However, including a non-zero
lead time while increasing the total cost due to having pipeline inventory will NOT change the calculation
of the optimal order quantity, Q∗. In other words, lead-time is not relevant to the determination of the
needed cycle stock.
Volume discounts are more complicated. Including them makes the purchasing costs relevant since
they now impact the order size. We discussed three types of discounts: All-Units (where the discount
applies to all items purchased if the total amount exceeds the break point quantity), Incremental (where
the discount only applies to the quantity purchased that exceeds the breakpoint quantity), and One-Time
(where a one-time-only discount is oﬀered and you need to determine the optimal quantity to procure as
an advance buy). Discounts are exceptionally common in practice as they are used to incentivize buyers
to purchase more or to order in convenient quantities (full pallet, full truckload, etc.).
A price break point is the minimum quantity required to get a price discount.
Finite Replenishment is very similar to the EOQ model, except that the product is available at a
certain production rate rather than all at once. In the lesson we show that this tends to reduce the
average inventory on hand (since some of each order is manufactured once the order is received) and
therefore increases the optimal order quantity.
• Lead time is greater than 0 (order not received instantaneously)
– Inventory Policy:
∗Order Q∗units when IP=DL
∗Order Q∗units every T ∗time periods
• Discounts
– All Units Discount—Discount applies to all units purchased if total amount exceeds the break
point quantity
– Incremental Discount—Discount applies only to the quantity purchased that exceeds the break
point quantity
– One-Time-Only Discount—A one-time-only discount applies to all units you order right now (no
quantity minimum or limit)
• Finite Replenishment
– Inventory becomes available at a rate of P units/time rather than all at one time
– If Production rate approach inﬁnity, model converges to EOQ
Notation:
c : Purchase cost ($/unit)
ce : Excess holding Costs ($/unit/time); Equal to ch
cs : Shortage costs ($/unit)
cg : One Time Good Deal Purchase Price ($/unit)
Fi : Fixed Costs Associated with Units Ordered below Incremental Discount Breakpoint i
D : Demand (units/time)
DA : Actual Demand (units/time)
DF : Forecasted Demand (untis/time)
h : Carrying or holding cost ($/inventory $/time)
L : Order Lead time
Q : Replenishment Order Quantity (units/order)
Q∗: Optimal Order Quantity under EOQ (units/order)
Qi : Breakpoint for quantity discount for discount i (units per order)
Qg : One Time Good Deal Order Quantity
P : Production (units/time)
T : Order Cycle Time (time/order)
T ∗: Optimal Time between Replenishments (time/order)
N : Orders per Time or 1/T (order/time)
TRC(Q) : Total Relevant Cost ($/time)
TC(Q) : Total Cost ($/time)
Formulas
Inventory Position
Inventory Position (IP) = Inventory on Hand (IOH) + Inventory on Order (IOO) – Back Orders (BO) –
Committed Orders (CO)
Supply Chain Fundamentals
Inventory on Order (IOO) is the inventory that has been ordered, but not yet received. This is
inventory in transit and also knows as Pipeline Inventory (PI).
Average Pipeline Inventory
Average Pipeline Inventory (API), on average, is the annual demand times the lead time. Essentially,
every item spends L time periods in transit. Both D and L should have consistent time units.
API = DL
Total Cost including Pipeline Inventory
The TC equation changes slightly if we assume a non-zero lead time and include the pipeline inventory.
TC(Q) = cD + ct
D
Q

+ ce
Q
2 + DL

+ csE[UnitsShort]
Note that as before, though, the purchase cost, shortage costs, and now pipeline inventory is not
relevant to determining the optimal order quantity, Q∗:
Q∗=
r
2ctD
ce
Discounts
If we include volume discounts, then the purchasing cost becomes relevant to our decision of order
quantity.
All Units Discounts
Discount applies to all units purchased if total amount exceeds the break point quantity. The procedure
for a single range All Units quantity discount (where new price is c1 if ordering at least Q1 units) is as
follows:
1.
Calculate Q∗
C0, the EOQ using the base (non-discounted) price, and Q∗
C1, the EOQ using the
ﬁrst discounted price
2.
If Q∗
C1 ≥Q1, the breakpoint for the ﬁrst all units discount, then order Q∗
C1 since it satisﬁes
the condition of the discount. Otherwise, go to step 3.
3.
Compare the TRC(Q∗
C0), the total relevant cost with the base (non-discounted) price, with
TRC(Q1), the total relevant cost using the discounted price (c1) at the breakpoint for the
discount. If TRC(Q∗
C0) < TRC(Q1), select Q∗
C0, otherwise order Q1.
Note that if there are more discount levels, you need to check this for each one.
c = c0
for
0 ≤Q ≤Q1
and
c = c1
for
Q1 ≤Q
TRC = Dc0 + ct
D
Q

+ c0
hQ

for
0 ≤Q ≤Q1
TRC = Dc1 + ct
D
Q

+ c1
hQ

for
Q1 ≤Q
Note: All units discount tend to raise cycle stock in the supply chain by encouraging retailers to
increase the size of each order. This makes economic sense for the manufacturer, especially when he
incurs a very high ﬁxed cost per order.
Incremental Discounts
Discount applies only to the quantity purchased that exceeds the break point quantity. The procedure
for a multi-range Incremental quantity discount (where if ordering at least Q1 units, the new price for
the Q −Q1 units is c1) is as follows:
1.
Calculate the Fixed cost per breakpoint, Fi,
2.
Calculate the Q∗
i for each discount range i (to include the Fi)
3.
Calculate the TRC for all discount ranges where the Qi−1 < Q∗
i < Qi+1 , that is, if it is in
range.
4.
Select the discount that provides the lowest TRC
The eﬀective cost, ce
i, can be used for the TRC calculations.
F0 = 0; Fi = Fi−1 + (ci−1 −ci)Qi
Q∗=
s
2D(ct + Fi)
hci
ce
i = ci + Fi
Q∗
i
x
One Time Discount
This is a less common discount – but it does happen. A one time only discount applies to all units you
order right now (no minimum quantity or limit). Simply calculate the Q∗
g and that is your order quantity.
If Q∗
g = Q∗then the discount does not make sense. If you ﬁnd that Q∗
g < Q∗, you made a mathematical
mistake – check your work!
TC = (CycleTime)(TC∗+ PurchaseCost) =
Qg
D
 p
2cthcD +
Qg
D

cD
Savings = TC −TCSP
Savings =
 Qg
D
 p
2cthcD +
Qg
D

cD

−

cgQg + hcg
Qg
 Qg
D

+ ct

Q∗
g = Q∗ch + D(c −cg)
hcg
Finite Replenishment or Economic Production Quantity
One can think of the EPQ equations as generalized forms where the EOQ is a special case where
P=inﬁnity. As the production rate decreases, the optimal quantity to be ordered increases. However,
note that if P < D, this means the rate of production is slower than the rate of demand and that you
will never have enough inventory to satisfy demand.
TRC[Q] = ctD
Q + Q
 1 −D
P

hc
EPQ =
s
2ctD
hc(1 −D
P ) =
EOQ
q 1 −D
P

Supply Chain Fundamentals
EOQ with Planned Back Orders
A planned backorder is where we stock out on purpose knowing that customers will wait, although we
do incur a penalty cost, cs, for stocking out. Why do we accept to stock out? Because, sometimes it is
very costly to have enough inventory on hand to always satisfy demand, and customers are willing to
wait. From this, we develop the idea of the critical ratio (CR), which is the ratio of the cs (the cost of
shortage or having too little product) to the ratio of the sum of cs and ce (the cost of having too much
or an excess of product). The critical ratio, by deﬁnition, ranges between 0 and 1 and is a good metric
of level of service. A high CR indicates a desire to stock out less frequently. If cs is inﬁnity, it means we
do not allow for shortage and the model becomes the conventional EOQ. As cs gets smaller, the Q∗
P BO
gets larger and a larger percentage is allowed to be backordered – since the penalty for stocking out gets
reduced.
Formulas
EOQ with Planned Backorders
This is an extension of the standard EOQ with the ability to allow for backorders at a penalty of cs.
TRC(Q, b) = ct
D
Q

+ ce
(Q −b)2
2Q

+ cs
 b2
2Q

Q∗
P BO =
r
2ctD
ce
rcs + ce
cs
= Q∗
s
(cs + ce)
cs
= Q∗
r
CR
b∗= ceQ∗
P BO
(cs + ce) =

1 −
cs
(cs + ce)

Q∗
P BO
T ∗
P BO = Q∗PBO
D
Order Q∗
P BO when IOH = -b∗; Order Q∗
P BO every T ∗
P BO time periods.
Where:
Q∗
P BO is the Optimal Order Quantity with Planned backorders
2.3.5
Introduction to Stochastic Demand
Deterministic versus Probabilistic Demand: Diﬀerences and Implications
Empirical Distribution
µ =
n
X
i
pixi
σ =
v
u
u
t
n
X
i
pi(xi −µ)2 =
p
E[X2] −E[X]2
FIGURE 2.9: Inventory Under Deterministic vs Stochastic Demand
Theoretical Probability Distributions
Rules of Thumb for Selecting Demand Distributions
1.
If Demand is all positive integers of low value (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4 etc.) then use Poisson.
2.
If Demand is larger numbers (says > 20), integrality is not critical and CV is small (∼<= 0.3)
then use Normal.
3.
Looks relatively even over a speciﬁed range then use Uniform.
4.
Has no reliable data or there is only anecdotal memories, then use Triangle.
2.3.6
Single Period Inventory Models
The single period inventory model is second only to the economic order quantity in its widespread use and
inﬂuence. Also referred to as the Newsvendor (Newsboy) model, the single period model diﬀers from the
EOQ in three main ways. First, while the EOQ assumes uniform and deterministic demand, the single-
period model allows demand to be variable and stochastic (random). Second, while the EOQ assumes a
steady state condition (stable demand with essentially an inﬁnite time horizon), the single-period model
assumes a single period of time. All inventories must be ordered prior to the start of the time period and
they cannot be replenished during the time period. Any inventory left over at the end of the time period
is scrapped and cannot be used at a later time. If there is extra demand that is not satisﬁed during the
period, it too is lost. Third, for EOQ we are minimizing the expected costs, while for the single period
model we are actually maximizing the expected proﬁtability.
The critical ratio applies directly to the single period model as well. We show that the optimal order
quantity, Q∗, occurs when the probability that the demand is less than Q∗= the Critical Ratio. In other
words, the Critical Ratio tells me how much of the demand probability that should be covered in order
to maximize the expected proﬁts.
Supply Chain Fundamentals
FIGURE 2.10: Density Functions for Discrete Uniform Distribution, Poisson Distribution, Continuous
Uniform Distribution, Normal Distribution, and Triangle Distribution
Marginal Analysis: Single Period Model
Two costs are associated with single period problems
• Excess cost (ce) when D < Q ($/unit) i.e. too much product
• Shortage cost (cs) when D > Q ($/unit) i.e. too little product
If we assume continuous distribution of demand
FIGURE 2.11: Expected Units Short and Expected Units Sold for Continuous Uniform Distribution,
Normal Distribution and Triangle Distribution
• ceP[X ≤Q] = expected excess cost of the Qth unit ordered
• cs(1 −P[X ≤Q]) = expected shortage cost of the Qth unit ordered
This implies that if E[Excess Cost] < E[Shortage Cost] then increase Q and that we are at Q∗when
E[Shortage Cost] = E[Excess Cost].
Solving this gives us: P[x ≤Q] =
cs
(ce+cs)
In words, this means that the percentage of the demand distribution covered by Q should be equal to
the Critical Ratio in order to maximize expected proﬁts.
Notation:
p : Selling price ($/unit)
c : Purchase cost ($/unit)
ct : Ordering Costs ($/order)
ce : Excess holding Costs ($/unit/time); Equal to ch
cs : Shortage Costs ($/unit)
D : Average Demand (units/time)
B : Penalty for not satisfying demand beyond lost proﬁt ($/unit)
b : Backorder Demand (units)
b∗: Optimal units on backorder when placing an order (unit)
g : Salvage value for excess inventory ($/unit)
h : Carrying or holding cost ($/inventory $/time)
L : Replenishment Lead Time (time)
Q : Replenishment Order Quantity (units/order)
Q∗
P BO : Optimal Order Quantity with Planned backorders
T : Order Cycle Time (time/order)
TRC(Q) : Total Relevant Cost ($/time)
TC(Q) : Total Cost ($/time)
Single Period (Newsvendor) Model
To maximize expected proﬁtability, we need to order suﬃcient inventory, Q, such that the probability
that the demand is less than or equal to this amount is equal to the Critical Ratio. Thus, the probability
of stocking out is equal to 1 – CR.
Supply Chain Fundamentals
P[x ≤Q] =
cs
(ce + cs)
For the simplest case where there is neither salvage value nor extra penalty of stocking out, these
become:
cs = p–c, that is the lost margin of missing a potential sale and,
ce = c, that is, the cost of purchasing one unit. The Critical Ratio becomes:
CR =
cs
(cs + ce) =
(p −c)
(p −c + c) = p −c
p
which is simply the margin divided by the price!
When we consider also salvage value (g) and shortage penalty (B), these become: cs = p – c + B,
that is the lost margin of missing a potential sale plus a penalty per item short and ce = c – g, that is,
the cost of purchasing one unit minus the salvage value I can gain back. Now the critical ratio becomes
CR =
cs
(cs + ce) =
(p −c + B)
(p −c + B + c −g) = p −c + B
p + B −g
2.3.7
Single Period Inventory Models-Expected Proﬁtability
We expand our analysis of the single period model to be able to calculate the expected proﬁtability of a
given solution. In the previous lesson, we learned how to determine the optimal order quantity, Q∗, such
that the probability of the demand distribution covered by Q∗is equal to the Critical Ratio, which is the
ratio of the shortage costs divided by the sum of the shortage and excess costs.
In order to determine the proﬁtability for a solution, we need to calculate the expected units sold, the
expected cost of buying Q units, and the expected units short, E[US]. Calculating the E[US] is tricky,
but we show how to use the Normal Tables as well as spreadsheets to determine this value.
Notation:
p : Selling price ($/unit)
c : Purchase cost ($/unit)
ct : Ordering Costs ($/order)
ce : Excess holding Costs ($/unit); For single period problems this is not necessarily equal to ch, since
that assumes that you can keep the inventory for later use.
cs : Shortage Costs ($/unit)
D : Average Demand (units/time)
B : Penalty for not satisfying demand beyond lost proﬁt ($/unit)
g : Salvage value for excess inventory ($/unit)
k : Safety Factor
x : Units Demanded
E[x] : Expected units demanded
E[US] : Expected Units Short (units)
Q : Replenishment Order Quantity (units/order)
TRC(Q) : Total Relevant Cost ($/period)
TC(Q) : Total Cost ($/period)
Formulas:
Proﬁt Maximization
In words, the expected proﬁt for ordering Q units is equal to the sales price, p, times the expected number
of units demanded, E[x]), minus the cost of purchasing Q units, cQ, minus the expected number of units
I would be short times the sales price. The diﬃcult part of this equation is the expected units short, or
the E[US].
E[Profit(Q)] = pE[x] −cQ −pE[UnitsShort]
Expected Proﬁts with Salvage and Penalty
If we include a salvage value, g, and a shortage penalty, B, then this becomes:
P(Q)=
 -cQ+px+g(Q-x)
if
x ≤Q
-cQ+pQ-B(x-Q)
if
x ≥Q)
E[P(Q)] = (p −g)E[x] −(c −g)Q −(p −g + B)E[US]
Rearranging this becomes:
E[P(Q)] = p(E[x] −E[US]) −cQ + g(Q −(E[x] −E[US])) −B(E[US])
In words, the expected proﬁt for ordering Q units is equal to four terms. The ﬁrst term is the sales
price, p, times the expected number of units demanded, E[x]), minus the expected units short. The second
term is simply the cost of purchasing Q units, cQ. The third term is the expected number of items that
I would have left over for salvage, times the salvage value, g. The fourth and ﬁnal term is the expected
number of units short times the shortage penalty, B.
Expected Values
E[Units Demanded]
Continuous:
R ∞
x=0 xfx(x)dx = ˆx
Discrete: P∞
x=0 xP[x] = ˆx
E[Units Sold]
Continuous:
R Q
x=0 xfx(x)dx + Q
R ∞
x=Q fx(x)dx
Discrete: PQ
x=0 xP[x] + Q P∞
x=Q+1 P[x]
E[Units Short]
Continuous:
R ∞
x=Q(x −Q)fx(x)dx
Discrete: P∞
x=Q+1(x −Q)P[x]
E[Excess]
E[Excess] and E[US]/E[Units Short] are diﬀerent things but they are related to each other.
E[UnitsShort] = σ ∗G(k)
Supply Chain Fundamentals
E[Excess] = σ ∗(k + G(k))
E[Excess] is a distance from Q. So, on average, how much of Q we have left after we have sold all the
units to be sold. E[Units Short] is a distance from the Demand. So, on average, how many units short of
the Demand were we once we’ve sold all the units that were sold that period.
You don’t have to use E[Excess]. Every problem can be solved using either one, and you can use either
to calculate proﬁts. If you want to see how we get from one to the other, here are some steps:
Q = E[UnitsSold] + E[Excess]
E[Excess] = Q −E[UnitsSold]
E[Excess] = Q −(E[x] −E[UnitsShort])
E[Excess] = Q −E[x] + E[UnitsShort]
Q −E[x] = σ ∗k (you can see this if you plot this in the distribution)
Expected Units Short E[US]
This is a tricky concept to get your head around at ﬁrst. Think of the E[US] as the average (mean or
expected value) of the demand ABOVE some amount that we specify or have on hand. As my Q gets
larger, then we expect the E[US] to get smaller, since I will probably not stock out as much.
Luckily for us, we have a nice way of calculating the E[US] for the Normal Distribution. The Expected
Unit Normal Loss Function is noted as G(k). To ﬁnd the actual units short, we simply multiply this G(k)
times the standard deviation of the probability distribution.
E[US] =
Z ∞
x=Q
(x −Q)fx(x)dx = σG((Q −µ)
σ
) = σG(k)
You can use the Normal tables to ﬁnd the G(k) for a given k value or you can use spreadsheets with
the equation below:
New Excel Version: G(k) = NORM.S.DIST(k, 0) −k ∗(1 −NORM.S.DIST(k, 1))
Old Excel Version: G(k) = NORMDIST(k, 0, 1, 0) −k ∗(1 −NORMSDIST(k))
2.3.8
Multi Period Inventory Models
We develop inventory replenishment models when we have uncertain or stochastic demand. We built oﬀ
of both the EOQ and the single period models to introduce three general inventory policies: the Base
Stock Policy, the (s,Q) continuous review policy and the (R,S) periodic review policy (the R,S model will
be explained in the next lesson). These are the most commonly used inventory policies in practice. They
are imbedded within a company’s ERP and inventory management systems.
To put them in context, here is the summary of the ﬁve inventory models covered so far:
• Economic Order Quantity — Deterministic Demand with inﬁnite horizon
– Order Q∗every T ∗periods
– Order Q∗when IP = µDL
• Single Period/ Newsvendor — Probabilistic Demand with ﬁnite (single period) horizon
– Order Q∗at start of period where P[x ≤Q]=CR
• Base Stock Policy — Probabilistic Demand with inﬁnite horizon
– Essentially a one-for-one replenishment
– Order what was demanded when it was demanded in the quantity it was demanded
• Continuous Review Policy (s,Q) — Probabilistic Demand with inﬁnite horizon
– This is event-based – we order when, and if, inventory passes a certain threshold
– Order Q∗when IP ≤s
• Periodic Review Policy (R,S) — Probabilistic Demand with inﬁnite horizon
– This is a time-based policy in that we order on a set cycle
– Order up to S units every R time periods
All of the models make trade-oﬀs: EOQ between ﬁxed and variable costs, Newsvendor between excess
and shortage inventory, and the latter three between cost and level of service. The concept of level of
service, LOS, is often murky and speciﬁc deﬁnitions and preferences vary between ﬁrms. However, for
our purposes, we can break them into two categories: targets and costs. We can establish a target value
for some performance metric and then design the minimum cost inventory policy to achieve the level of
service. The two metrics covered are Cycle Service Level (CSL) and Item Fill Rate (IFR). The second
approach is to place a dollar amount on a speciﬁc type of stock out occurring and then minimize the
total cost function. The two cost metrics we covered were Cost of Stock Out Event (CSOE) and Cost of
Item Short (CIS). They are related to each other.
Regardless of the metrics used, the end result is a safety factor, k, and a safety stock. The safety stock
is simply kσDL. The term σDL is deﬁned as the standard deviation of demand over lead time, but it is
more technically the root mean square error (RMSE) of the forecast over the lead time. Most companies
do not track their forecast error to the granular level that you require for setting inventory levels, so
defaulting to the standard deviation of demand is not too bad of an estimate. It is essentially assuming
that the forecast is the mean.
Base Stock Policy
The Base Stock policy is a one-for-one policy. If I sell four items, I order four items to replenish the
inventory. The policy determines what the stocking level, or the base stock, is for each item. The base
stock, S∗, is the sum of the expected demand over the lead time plus the RMSE of the forecast error over
lead time multiplied by some safety factor k. The LOS for this policy is simply the Critical Ratio. Note
that the excess inventory cost, ce, in this case (and all models here) assumes you can use it later and is
the product of the cost and the holding rate, ch.
• Optimal Base Stock, S∗: S∗= µDL + kLOSσDL
• Level of Service (LOS): LOS = P[µDL ≤S∗] = CR =
cs
(cs+ce)
Continuous Review Policies (s,Q)
This is also known as the Order-Point, Order-Quantity policy and is essentially a two-bin system. The
policy is “Order Q∗units when Inventory Position is less than the re-order point s”. The re-order point
is the sum of the expected demand over the lead-time plus the RMSE of the forecast error over lead-time
multiplied by some safety factor k.
• Reorder Point: s = µDL + kσDL
• Order Quantity (Q): Q is typically found through the EOQ formula
Notation:
B1 : Cost associated with a stock out event ($/event)
Supply Chain Fundamentals
c : Purchase cost ($/unit)
ct : Ordering Costs ($/order)
ce : Excess holding Costs ($/unit/time); Equal to ch
cs : Shortage costs ($/unit)
D : Average Demand (units/time)
DS: Demand over short time period (e.g. week)
DL: Demand over long time period (e.g. month)
h: Carrying or holding cost ($/inventory $/time)
L : Replenishment Lead Time (time)
Q : Replenishment Order Quantity (units/order)
T : Order Cycle Time (time/order)
µDL: Expected Demand over Lead Time (units/time)
σDL : Standard Deviation of Demand over Lead Time (units/time)
k : Safety Factor
s : Reorder Point (units)
S: Order up to Point (units)
R: Review Period (time)
N: Orders per Time or 1/T (order/time)
IP: Inventory Position = Inventory on Hand + Inventory on Order – Backorders
IOH: Inventory on Hand (units)
IOO: Inventory on Order (units)
IFR: Item Fill Rate (%)
CSL: Cycle Service Level (%)
CSOE: Cost of Stock Out Event ($ / event)
CIS: Cost per Item Short; Equal to cs
E[US]: Expected Units Short (units)
G(k): Unit Normal Loss Function
A Tip on Converting Times
You will typically need to convert annual forecasts to weekly demand or vice versa or something in
between. This is generally very easy – but some students get confused at times:
Converting long to short (n is number of short periods within long):
E[DS] = E[DL]/n
V AR[DS] = V AR[DL]/n
σs = σL/√n
Converting from short to long:
E[DL] = nE[DS]
V AR[DL] = nV AR[DS]
σL = √nσs
Level of Service Metrics
Here are four methods for determining the appropriate safety factor, k, for use in any of the inventory
models. They are Cycle Service Level, Cost per Stock Out Event, Item Fill Rate, and Cost per Item
Short.
Cycle Service Level (CSL)
The CSL is the probability that there will not be a stock out within a replenishment cycle. This is
frequently used as a performance metric where the inventory policy is designed to minimize cost to
achieve an expected CSL of, say, 95%. Thus, it is one minus the probability of a stock out occurring. If
I know the target CSL and the distribution (we will use Normal most of the time) then we can ﬁnd the
s that satisﬁes it using tables or a spreadsheet where s = NORM.INV (CSL, Mean, StandardDeviation)
and k=NORM.S.INV(CSL).
CSL = 1 −P[Stockout] = 1 −P[X > s] = P[X ≤s]
Note that as k increases, it gets diﬃcult to improve CSL and it will require enormous amount of
inventory to cover the extreme limits.
Cost Per Stock out Event (CSOE) or B1 Cost
The CSOE is related to the CSL, but instead of designing to a target CSL value, a penalty is charged
when a stock out occurs within a replenishment cycle. The inventory policy is designed to minimize the
total costs – so this balances cost of holding inventory explicitly with the cost of stocking out. Minimizing
the total costs for k, we ﬁnd that as long as
B1D
ceσDLQ
√
2π > 1, then we should set:
k =
s
2ln
B1D
ceσDLQ
√
2π
If
B1D
ceσDLQ
√
2π < 1 we should set k as low as management allows.
Item Fill Rate (IFR)
The IFR is the fraction of demand that is met with the inventory on hand out of cycle stock. This is
frequently used as a performance metric where the inventory policy is designed to minimize cost to achieve
an expected IFR of, say, 90%. If I know the target IFR and the distribution (we will use Normal most of
the time) then we can ﬁnd the appropriate k value by using the Unit Normal Loss Function, G(k).
IFR = 1 −E[US]
Q
= 1 −σDLG[k]
Q
G(k) =
Q
σDL
(1 −IFR)
G(k) is the Unit Normal Loss Function, which can be calculated in Spreadsheets as:
New Excel Version: G(k) = NORM.S.DIST(k, 0) −k ∗(1 −NORM.S.DIST(k, 1)) Old Excel Version:
G(k) = NORMDIST(k, 0, 1, 0) −k ∗(1 −NORMSDIST(k))
Once we ﬁnd the k using unit normal tables, we can plug the values in s = µDL + kσDL to frame the
policy.
Cost per Item Short (CIS)
CIS represents the cost of shortage cs, where there is a cost associated for each unit short within a
replenishment cycle. The inventory policy related to CIS is designed to minimize the total costs – so it
balances the cost of holding inventory with the cost of stocking out.
As long as Qce
Dcs ≤1 , then the optimal k for the minimum Total Relevant Cost of this policy is obtained
when:
P[StockOut] = P[x ≥k] = Qce
Dcs
In a spreadsheet, this becomes k=NORM.S.INV(1 -
Qce
Dcs ) or (k = NORMSINV(1 -
Qce
Dcs ) for older
Supply Chain Fundamentals
versions).
If Qce
Dcs > 1, we should set k as low as management allows.
FIGURE 2.12: Summary of Level of Service Metrics
There are trade-oﬀs between the diﬀerent performance metrics (both cost- and service-based). We
demonstrate that once one of the metrics is determined (or explicitly set) then the other three are
implicitly set. Because they all lead to the establishment of a safety factor, k, they are dependent on each
other. This means that once you have set the safety stock, regardless of the method, you can calculate
the expected performance implied by the remaining three metrics.
Safety Stock Logic – relationship between Level of Service Metrics
Safety stock is determined by the safety factor, k. So that: s = µDL + kσDL and the expected cost of
safety stock = cekσDL. Two ways to calculate k: Service based or Cost based metrics:
• Service Based Metrics—set k to meet expected level of service:
– Cycle Service Level: CSL = P[x ≤k]
– Item Fill Rate: IFR = 1 −( σDLG[k]
Q
)
Note: IFR is always higher than CSL for the same safety stock level.
• Cost Based Metrics—ﬁnd k that minimizes total costs over a period of time:
– Total Cost of Stock out Events (over a period of time): E[CSOE] = (B1)P[x ≥k]( D
Q)
– Total Cost of Items Short (over a period of time): E[CIS] = csE[US]( D
Q) = csσDLG(k)( D
Q)
The relationship between the four metrics (2 cost and 2 service based) is shown in the ﬂowchart below
(Figure 13). Once one metric (CSL, IFR, CSOE, or CIS) is explicitly set, then the other three metrics
are implicitly determined.
FIGURE 2.13: Relationships between Level of Service Metrics
Periodic Review Policies
Periodic Review policies are very popular because they ﬁt the regular pattern of work where ordering
might occur only once a week or once every two weeks. The lead-time and the review period are related
and can be traded-oﬀto achieve certain goals.
Notation:
B1 : Cost associated with a stock out event
c : Purchase cost ($/unit)
ct : Ordering Costs ($/order)
ce : Excess holding Costs ($/unit/time); Equal to ch
cs : Shortage costs ($/unit)
cg : One Time Good Deal Purchase Price ($/unit)
D : Average Demand (units/time)
h : Carrying or holding cost ($/inventory $/time)
L : Replenishment Lead Time (time)
Q : Replenishment Order Quantity (units/order)
T : Order Cycle Time (time/order)
µDL+R : Expected Demand over Lead Time plus Review Period (units/time)
σDL+R : Standard Deviation of Demand over Lead Time plus Review Period (units/time)
k : Safety Factor
s : Reorder Point (units)
S : Order up to Point (units)
R : Review Period (time)
N : Orders per Time or 1/T (order/time)
Supply Chain Fundamentals
IP : Inventory Position = Inventory on Hand + Inventory on Order – Backorders
IOH : Inventory on Hand (units)
IOO : Inventory on Order (units)
IFR : Item Fill Rate (%)
CSL : Cycle Service Level (%)
CSOE : Cost of Stock Out Event ($/ event)
CIS : Cost per Item Short; Equal to cs
E[US] : Expected Units Short (units)
G(k) : Unit Normal Loss Function
This is also known as the Order Up To policy and is essentially a two-bin system. The policy is
“Order Up To S∗units every R time periods”. The order up to point, S∗, is the sum of the expected
demand over the lead-time and the replenishment time plus the RMSE of the forecast error over lead
plus replenishment time multiplied by some safety factor k.
• Order Up To Point: S = µDL+R + kσDL+R
Since the inventory position IP will not be the same every time the inventory is checked, this means
the order quantity will not be constant in each replenishment cycle and will be equal to S∗−IP. However,
on average, the order quantity for an (R,S) system equals the expected demand D over a replenishment
cycle R, so Q = D ∗R.
Periodic (R,S) versus Continuous (s, Q) Review
There is a convenient transformation of (s, Q) to (R, S)...
• (s,Q) = Continuous, order Q when IP ≤s
• (R, S) = Periodic, order up to S every R time periods
...that allows for the use of all previous (s, Q) decision rules.
• Reorder point, s, for continuous becomes Order Up To point, S, for periodic system
• Q for continuous becomes D*R for periodic
• L for a continuous becomes R+L for periodic
Potential approach:
• Make transformations
• Solve for (s, Q) using transformations
• Determine the ﬁnal policy such that S = XDL+R + kσDL+R
• Calculate all level of service metrics (CSL, IFR, CSOE, CIS) using Q=D*R, µDL+R and σDL+R
Relationship Between L & R
The lead time, L, and the review period, R, both inﬂuence the total costs. Note that the average
inventory costs for a (R,S) system is = ce[ DR
2 + kσDL+R + LD]. This implies that increasing Lead Time,
L, will increase Safety Stock non-linearly and Pipeline Inventory linearly while increasing the Review
Period, R will increase the Safety Stock non-linearly and the Cycle Stock linearly.
2.3.9
Inventory Models for Multiple Items & Locations
There are several problems with managing items independently, including:
• Lack of coordination—constantly ordering items
• Ignoring of common constraints such as ﬁnancial budgets or space
• Missed opportunities for consolidation and synergies
• Waste of management time
Managing Multiple Items
There are two issues to solve in order to manage multiple items:
1.
Can we aggregate SKUs to use similar operating policies?
(a) Group using common cost characteristics or break points
(b) Group using Power of Two Policies
2.
How do we manage inventory under common constraints?
(a) Exchange curves for cycle stock
(b) Exchange curves for safety stock
Aggregation Methods
When we have multiple SKUs to manage, we want to aggregate those SKUs where we can use the same
policies.
Grouping Like Items—Break Points
• Basic Idea: Replenish higher value items faster
• Used for situations with multiple items that have
– Relatively stable demand
– Common ordering costs, ct, and holding charges, h
– Diﬀerent annual demands, Di, and purchase cost ci
• Approach
– Pick a base time period, w0, (typically a week)
– Create a set of candidate ordering periods (w1, w2, etc.)
– Find Dici values where TRC(wj)=TRC(wj+1)
– Group SKUs that fall in common value (Dici) buckets
Supply Chain Fundamentals
Grouping Like Items Example
Selected w0 = 1 week Number of weeks of supply (WOS) to order for item i ordering at time period j =
Qij = Di(wj/52) Selecting between options w1 & w2 (where w1 < w2 < w3 etc.) becomes:
ctDi/Qi1 + (cihQi1)/2 = ctDi/Qi2 + (cihQi2)/2
52ctDi/Diw1 + cihDiw1/104 = 52ctDi/Diw2 + cihDiw2/104
(cihDi/104)(w1 −w2) = (52ct)(1/w2–1/w1)
Dici = [(104)(52ct)/(h(w1 −w2))](1/w2–1/w1)
Dici = 5408ct/(hw1w2)
Rule
If Dici ≥5408ct/(hw1w2) then select w1
Else: if Dici ≥5408ct/(hw2w3) then select w2
Else: if Dici ≥5408ct/(hw3w4) then select w3
Else: . . . . . .
Grouping Like Items Example
Suppose you need to set up replenishment schedules for several hundred parts that have relatively stable
(yet not necessarily the same) demand. They all have similar order costs (ct = $5) and holding charge
(h = 0.20).You have the following potential ordering periods (in weeks): w1 = 1, w2 = 2, w3 = 4, w4 =
13, w5 = 26, w6 = 52.
What break-even ordering points should you establish?
Break-point for selecting between 1 week or 2 weeks is:
Dici = 5408ct/(hw1w2) = 5408(5) / (.2)(1)(2) = $67,600
If Dici ≥$67,600 then order 1 week’s worth each week
Break-point for selecting between 2 weeks or 4 weeks is:
Dici = 5408ct/(hw2w3) = 5408(5) / (.2)(2)(4) = $16,900
If $67,600 > Dici ≥$16,900 then order 2 week’s worth every 2 weeks
Final Ordering Break Points:
Order every 1 week if Dici ≥$67,600
Order every 2 weeks if Dici ≥$16,900
Order every 4 weeks if Dici ≥$2,600
Order every 13 weeks if Dici ≥$400
Order every 26 weeks if Dici ≥$100
Order every 52 weeks otherwise
Power of Two Formula
• Order in time intervals of powers of two
• Select a realistic base period, Tbase (day, week, month)
• Guarantees that TRC will be within 6% of optimal!
Managing Under Common Constraints
There is typically a budget or space constraint that limits the amount of inventory that you can actually
keep on hand. Managing each inventory item separately could lead to violating this constraint. Exchange
curves are a good way to use the managerial levers of holding charge, ordering cost, and safety factor to
set inventory policies to meet a common constraint.
Exchange Curves: Cycle Stock
• Helps determine the best allocation of inventory budget across multiple SKUs
• Relevant Cost parameters
– Holding Charge (h)
∗There is no single correct value
∗Cost allocations for time and systems diﬀer between ﬁrms
∗Reﬂection of management’s investment and risk proﬁle
– Order Cost (ct)
∗Not know with precision
∗Cost allocations for time and systems diﬀer between ﬁrms
• Exchange Curve
– Depicts trade-oﬀbetween total annual cycle stock (TACS) and number of replenishments (N)
– Determines the ct/h value that meets budget constraints
Exchange Curves: Safety Stock
• Need to trade-oﬀcost of safety stock and level of service
• Key parameter is safety factor (k) – usually set by management
• Estimate the aggregate service level for diﬀerent budgets
• The process is as follows:
1. Select an inventory metric to target
2. Starting with a high metric value calculate:
(a) The required ki to meet that target for each SKU
(b) The resulting safety stock cost for each SKU and the total safety stock (TSS)
(c) The other resulting inventory metrics of interest for each SKU and total
3. Lower the metric value, go to step 2
4. Chart resulting TSS versus Inventory Metrics
Managing Multiple Locations
Managing the same item in multiple locations will lead to a higher inventory level than managing them
in a single location. Consolidating inventory locations to a single common location is known as inventory
pooling. Pooling reduces the cycle stock needed by reducing the number of deliveries required and reduces
the safety stock by risk pooling that reduces the CV of the demand. This is also called the square root
“law” – which is insightful and powerful, but also makes some restrictive assumptions, such as uniformly
distributed demand, use of EOQ ordering principles, and independence of demand in diﬀerent locations.
Supply Chain Fundamentals
Notation:
ci : Purchase cost for item i ($/unit)
ct : Ordering Costs ($/order)
ce : Excess holding Costs ($/unit/time); Equal to ch
cs : Shortage costs ($/unit)
Di : Average Demand for item i (units/time)
h : Carrying or holding cost ($/inventory $/time)
Q : Replenishment Order Quantity (units/order)
T : Order Cycle Time (time/order)
TP ractical: Practical Order Cycle Time (time/order)
k : Safety Factor
w0 : Base Time Period (time)
s : Reorder Point (units)
R : Review Period (time)
N : Number of Inventory Replenishment Cycles
TACS: Total Annual Cycle Stock
TSS: Total Value of Safety Stock
TVIS: Total Value of Items Short
G(k): Unit Normal Loss Function
Formulas:
Power of Two Policy
The process is as follows:
1.
Create table of SKUs
2.
Calculate T ∗for each SKU
3.
Calculate Tpractical for each SKU
T ∗= Q∗
D =
s
2ctD
ce
D
=
r
2ct
Dce
In a spreadsheet this is: Tpractical = 2 ˆ (ROUNDUP(LN(Toptimal / SQRT(2)) /LN(2),0))
Exchange Curves: Cycle Stock
TACS =
n
X
i=1
Qici
=
rct
h
√
n
X
i=1
p
Dici
N =
n
X
i=1
Di
Qi
=
r
h
ct
√
n
X
i=1
p
Dici
Process
• Create a table of SKUs with “Annual Value” (Dici) and √Dici
• Find the sum of √Dici term for SKUs being analyzed
• Calculate TACS and N for range of (ct/h) values
• Chart N vs TACS
Exchange Curves: Safety Stock
TSS =
n
X
i=1
kiσDLici
TV IS =
n
X
i=1
(Di
Qi
ciσDLiG(ki))
Process:
1.
Select an inventory metric to target
2.
Starting with a high metric value calculate:
•The required ki to meet that target for each SKU
•The resulting safety stock cost for each SKU and the total safety stock (TSS)
•The other resulting inventory metrics of interest for each SKU and total
3.
Lower the metric value, go to step 2
4.
Chart resulting TSS versus Inventory Metrics
Pooled Inventories
Note that the safety stock formula for independent inventory in the ﬁgure should read: SSindependent =
Pn
i=1kσdi = kσD
√n
Supply Chain Fundamentals
FIGURE 2.14: Comparison between independent and pooled inventories.
FIGURE 2.15: Inventory Management by Segment
FIGURE 2.16: Inventory Policies (Rules of Thumb)
2.3.10
Inventory Models for Class A & C Items
Inventory Management by Segment
Inventory Policies (Rules of Thumb)
Managing Class A Items
There are two general ways that items can be considered Class A:
• Fast Moving but Cheap (Large D, Small c →Q > 1)
• Slow Moving but Expensive (Large c, Small D →Q = 1)
This dictates which Probability Distribution to use for modeling the demand
• Fast Movers
– Normal or Lognormal Distribution
– Good enough for B items
– OK for A items if µDL or µDL+R ≥10
• Slow Movers
– Poisson Distribution
– More complicated to handle
– OK for A items if µDL or µDL or µDL+R < 10
Managing Class C Items
Class C items have low cD values but comprise the lion-share of the SKUs. When managing them we need
to consider the implicit & explicit costs. The objective is to minimize management attention. Regardless
of policy, savings will most likely not be signiﬁcant, so try to design simple rules to follow and explore
opportunities for disposing of inventory. Alternatively, try to set common reorder quantities. This can be
done by assuming common ct and h values and then ﬁnding Dici values for ordering frequencies.
Disposing of Excess Inventory
• Why does excess inventory occur?
– SKU portfolios tend to grow
– Poor forecasts - Shorter lifecycles
• Which items to dispose?
– Look at DOS (days of supply) for each item = IOH/D
– Consider getting rid of items that have DOS > x years
• What actions to take?
– Convert to other uses
– Ship to more desired location
– Mark down price
– Auction
Supply Chain Fundamentals
Real World Inventory Challenges
While models are important, it is also important to understand where there are challenges implementing
models in real life.
• Models are not used exactly as in textbooks
• Data is not always available or correct
• Technology matters
• Business processes matter even more
• Inventory policies try to answer three questions:
– How often should I check my inventory?
– How do I know if I should order more?
– How much to order?
• All inventory models use two key numbers
– Inventory Position
– Order Point
Notation:
B1 : Cost Associated with a Stock out Event
c : Purchase Cost ($/unit)
ct : Ordering Costs ($/order)
ce : Excess Holding Costs ($/unit/time); Equal to ch
cs : Shortage Costs ($/unit)
cg : One Time Good Deal Purchase Price ($/unit)
D : Average Demand (units/time)
h : Carrying or Holding Cost ($/inventory $/time)
L[Xi] : Discrete Unit Loss Function
Q : Replenishment Order Quantity (units/order)
T : Order Cycle Time (time/order)
µDL : Expected Demand over Lead Time (units/time)
σDL : Standard Deviation of Demand over Lead Time (units/time)
µDL+R : Expected Demand over Lead Time plus Review Period (units/time)
σDL+R : Standard Deviation of Demand over Lead Time plus Review Period (units/time)
k : Safety Factor
s : Reorder Point (units)
S : Order Up to Point (units)
R : Review Period (time)
N : Orders per Time or 1/T (order/time)
IP : Inventory Position = Inventory on Hand + Inventory on Order (IOO) – Backorders
IOH : Inventory on Hand (units)
IOO : Inventory on Order (units)
IFR : Item Fill Rate (%)
CSL : Cycle Service Level (%)
E[US] : Expected Units Short (units)
G(k) : Unit Normal Loss Function
Formulas
Fast Moving A Items
TRC = ct(D
Q ) + ce(Q
2 + kσDL) + B1(D
Q )P[x > k]
Q∗= EOQ
s
(1 + B1P[x > k]
ct
k∗=
s
2ln
DB1
√
2πQceσDL
• Iteratively solve the two equations
• Stop when Q∗and k∗converge within acceptable range
Slow Moving A Items
Use a Poisson distribution to model sales
• Probability of x events occurring within a time period
• Mean = Variance = λ
p[x0] = Prob[x = x0] = e−λλx0
x0!
for
x0
F[x0] = Prob[x ≤x0] =
x0
X
x=0
e−λλx
x!
for
x0
For a discrete function, the loss function L[Xi] can be calculated as follows (Cachon & Terwiesch)
L[Xi] = L[Xi−1] −(Xi −Xi−1)(1 −F[Xi−1])
Learning Objectives
• Understand the reasons for holding inventory and the diﬀerent types of inventory.
• Understand the concepts of total cost and total relevant costs.
• Identify and quantify the four major cost components of total costs: Purchasing, Ordering, Holding,
and Shortage.
• Able to estimate the Economic Order Quantity (EOQ) and to determine when it is appropriate to use.
• Able to estimate sensitivity of EOQ to underlying changes in the input data and understanding of its
underlying robustness.
• Understand how to determine the EOQ with diﬀerent volume discounting schemes.
• Understand how to determine the Economic Production Quantity (EPQ) when the inventory becomes
available at a certain rate of time instead of all at once.
• Ability to use the Critical Ratio to determine the optimal order quantity to maximize expected proﬁts.
• Ability to established inventory policies for EOQ with planned backorders as well as single period
models.
• Ability to determine proﬁtability, expected units short, expected units sold of a single period model.
Supply Chain Fundamentals
• Understanding of safety stock and its role in protecting for excess demand over lead time.
• Ability to develop base stock and order-point, order-quantity continuous review policies.
• Ability to determine proper safety factor, k, given the desired CSL or IFR or the appropriate cost
penalty for CSOE or CIS.
• Able to establish a periodic review, Order Up To (S,R) Replenishment Policy using any of the four
performance metrics.
• Understand relationships between the performance metrics (CSL, IFR, CSOE, and CIS) and be able
to calculate the implicit values.
• Able to use the inventory models to make trade-oﬀs and estimate impacts of policy changes.
• Understand how to use diﬀerent methods to aggregate SKUs for common inventory policies.
• Understand how to use Exchange Curves.
• Understand how inventory pooling impacts both cycle stock and safety stock.
• Understand how to use diﬀerent inventory models for Class A and C items.
References
For General Inventory Management
There are more books that cover the basics of inventory management than there are grains of sand
on the beach! Inventory management is also usually covered in Operations Management and Industrial
Engineering texts as well. A word of warning, though. Every textbook uses diﬀerent notation for the
same concepts. Get used to it. Always be sure to understand what the nomenclature means so that you
do not get confused.
• Nahmias, S. Production and Operations Analysis. McGraw-Hill International Edition. ISBN: 0-07-
2231265-3. Chapter 4.
• Silver, E.A., Pyke, D.F., Peterson, R. Inventory Management and Production Planning and Scheduling.
ISBN: 978-0471119470. Chapter 1
• Ballou, R.H. Business Logistics Management. ISBN: 978-0130661845. Chapter 9.
For EOQ
• Schwarz, Leroy B., “The Economic Order-Quantity (EOQ) Model” in Building intuition : insights from
basic operations management models and principles, edited by Dilip Chhajed, Timothy Lowe, 2007,
Springer, New York, (pp 135-154).
• Silver, E.A., Pyke, D.F., Peterson, R. Inventory Management and Production Planning and Scheduling.
ISBN: 978-0471119470. Chapter 5
• Ballou, R.H. Business Logistics Management. ISBN: 978-0130661845. Chapter 9.
For EOQ Extensions
• Nahmias, S. Production and Operations Analysis. McGraw-Hill International Edition. ISBN: 0-07-
2231265-3. Chapter 4.
• Silver, E.A., Pyke, D.F., Peterson, R. Inventory Management and Production Planning and Scheduling.
ISBN: 978-0471119470. Chapter 5.
• Ballou, R.H. Business Logistics Management. ISBN: 978-0130661845. Chapter 9.
• Schwarz, Leroy B., “The Economic Order-Quantity (EOQ) Model” in Building intuition : insights from
basic operations management models and principles, edited by Dilip Chhajed, Timothy Lowe, 2007,
Springer, New York, (pp 135-154).
• Muckstadt, John and Amar Sapra ”Models and Solutions in Inventory Management”., 2006, Springer
New York, New York, NY. Chapter 2 & 3.
For Single Period Inventory Models
• Nahmias, S. Production and Operations Analysis. McGraw-Hill International Edition. ISBN: 0-07-
2231265-3. Chapter 5.
• Silver, E.A., Pyke, D.F., Peterson, R. Inventory Management and Production Planning and Scheduling.
ISBN: 978-0471119470. Chapter 10.
• Porteus, Evan L., “The Newsvendor Problem” in Building intuition: insights from basic operations
management models and principles, edited by Dilip Chhajed, Timothy Lowe, 2007, Springer, New
York, (pp 115-134).
• Muckstadt, John and Amar Sapra ”Models and Solutions in Inventory Management”., 2006, Springer
New York, New York, NY. Chapter 5.
• Ballou, R.H. Business Logistics Management. ISBN: 978-0130661845. Chapter 9.
For Probabilistic Inventory Models
• Nahmias, S. Production and Operations Analysis. McGraw-Hill International Edition. ISBN: 0-07-
2231265-3. Chapter 5. Silver, E.A., Pyke, D.F., Peterson, R. Inventory Management and Production
Planning and Scheduling. ISBN: 978-0471119470. Chapter 7.
• Ballou, R.H. Business Logistics Management. ISBN: 978-0130661845. Chapter 9.
• Muckstadt, John and Amar Sapra ”Models and Solutions in Inventory Management”., 2006, Springer
New York, New York, NY. Chapter 9, 10
For Inventory Models with Multiple Items and Locations
• Silver, E.A., Pyke, D.F., Peterson, R. Inventory Management and Production Planning and Scheduling.
ISBN: 978-0471119470. Chapter 7 & 8.
For Inventory Models for Class A & Class C Items
• Cachon, Gerard, and Christian Terwiesch. Matching Supply with Demand: An Introduction to Opera-
tions Management. Boston, MA: McGraw-Hill/Irwin, 2005.
• Silver, E.A., Pyke, D.F., Peterson, R. Inventory Management and Production Planning and Scheduling.
ISBN: 978-0471119470. Chapter 8 & 9.
2.4
Fundamentals of Transportation Management
2.4.1
Summary
This section provides an overview of transportation networks, explains how to analyze the trade-oﬀs
between cost and level of service to select the best mode of transportation, and provides guidance on how
to address speciﬁc transportation problems.
Transportation networks can be broken down into three diﬀerent layers: the physical network, the
operational network, and the strategic or service network. The physical network represents how the
Supply Chain Fundamentals
product physically moves, the actual path that the shipment could take from origin to destination. The
physical network is the basis for all the cost and distance calculations. The operational network represents
the route the shipment takes in terms of decision points. Each node is a decision point, and each arc
is a speciﬁc mode with an associated cost, distance, etc. The strategic or service network represents a
series of paths through the network, from origin to destination. Each path represents a complete option
that includes end-to-end cost, distance, and service characteristics. Decisions that tie into the inventory
policies are made at the strategic or service network level.
Freight transportation analysis introduces the concept of the transportation product and eco-
nomic transportation modes. The transportation product contains four fundamental operations: load-
ing/unloading, vehicle routing, linehaul moves and facility sorting. There are three main transportation
problems based on the number of origin points and the number of destination points: one to one, one
to many, and many to many. Freight transportation is also broken down into economic modes, namely
consolidated operations and direct operations. Each mode type has diﬀerent economic characteristics, in
terms of scale, scope and density.
2.4.2
Key Concepts
Packaging
An important component of freight transportation is packaging. Packaging can be classiﬁed in three
categories. The Primary packaging, has direct contact with the product and is usually the smallest unit
of distribution (e.g. a bottle of wine, a can, etc.). The Secondary packaging contains product and also
a middle layer of packaging that is outside the primary packaging, mainly to group primary packages
together (e.g. a box with 12 bottle of wines, cases, cartons, etc.). The Tertiary packaging is designed
thinking more on transport shipping, warehouse storage and bulk handling (e.g. pallets, containers, etc.).
• Level of packaging mirrors handling needs.
• Pallets—standard size of 48 x 40 in in the USA (120 x 80 cm in Europe).
• Shipping Containers:
– TEU (20 ft) 33 m3 volume with 24.8 kkg total payload
– FEU (40 ft) 67 m3 volume with 28.8 kkg total payload
– 53 ft long (Domestic US) 111 m3 volume with 20.5 kkg total payload
Transportation Networks
Transportation networks can be analyzed in three layers:
• Physical Network: The actual path that the product takes from origin to destination including guide
ways, terminals and controls. Basis for all costs and distance calculations – typically only found once.
• Operational Network: The route the shipment takes in terms of decision points. Each arc is a spe-
ciﬁc mode with costs, distance, etc. Each node is a decision point. The four primary components are
loading/unloading, local-routing, line-haul, and sorting.
• Strategic Network: A series of paths through the network from origin to destination. Each represents a
complete option and has end-to-end cost, distance, and service characteristics.
The transportation product:
The transportation product consists of four fundamental operations and two types of economic modes.
The fundamental transportation operations are: loading & unloading, vehicle routing, linehaul moves,
facility sorting. The way each of these operations is performed will determine the cost of the transportation
product, as well as the service level.
There are two types of economic modes: direct, consolidated. Direct mode is when cargo moves directly
from one origin to one destination (1:1). The direct mode brings strong economies of scope (balance).
The consolidated mode tries to consolidate shipments (1:∞, ∞:1, ∞:∞). The consolidated mode brings
strong economies of scale and density.
2.4.3
Mode Selection
Transportation modes have speciﬁc niches and perform better than other modes in certain situations.
Also, in many cases, there are only one or two feasible options between modes.
Criteria for Feasibility
• Geography
– Global: Air versus Ocean (trucks cannot cross oceans!)
– Surface: Trucking (TL, LTL, parcel) vs. Rail vs. Intermodal vs. Barge
• Required speed
– > 500 miles in 1 day—Air
– < 500 miles in 1 day—Trucking
• Shipment size (weight/density/cube, etc.)
– High weight, cube items cannot be moved by air.
– Large oversized shipments might be restricted to rail or barge.
• Other restrictions
– Nuclear or hazardous materials (HazMat)
– Product characteristics
Trade-oﬀs within the set of feasible choices
Once all feasible modes (or separate carrier ﬁrms) have been identiﬁed, the selection within this feasible
set is made as a trade-oﬀbetween costs and service level. It is important to translate the “non-cost”
elements into costs via the total cost equation. The typical non-cost elements are:
• Time (mean transit time, variability of transit time, frequency)
• Capacity
• Loss and Damage
Transportation Cost Functions
Transportation costs can take many diﬀerent forms, to include:
• Pure variable cost / unit
• Pure ﬁxed cost / shipment
• Mixed variable & ﬁxed cost
• Variable cost / unit with a minimum quantity
• Incremental discounts
Impact of Transportation on Inventory Cost
Transportation aﬀects total inventory cost via:
• Cost of transportation (ﬁxed, variable, or some combination)
• Lead time (expected value as well as variability)
• Capacity restrictions (as they limit optimal order size)
• Miscellaneous factors (such as material restrictions or perishability)
Supply Chain Fundamentals
2.4.4
Lead Time Variability
Variability in lead time impacts the total cost equation for inventory. There are important linkages be-
tween lead time reliability, forecast accuracy, and inventory levels. Therefore, mode selection is heavily
inﬂuenced not only by the value of the product being transported, but also the expected lead time and
its variability.
Lead Time Reliability
There are two diﬀerent dimensions of reliability that do not always match:
• Credibility (reserve slots are agreed, stop at all ports, load all containers, etc.)
• Schedule consistency (actual vs. quoted performance)
Contract reliability in procurement and operations do not always match as they are typically per-
formed by diﬀerent parts of an organization. Contract reliability diﬀers dramatically across diﬀerent route
segments (origin port dwell time vs. port-to-port transit time vs. destination port dwell time for instance).
For most shippers, the greatest transit variability occurs in the origin inland transportation legs and at
the ports.
Demand Over Lead Time with Lead Time Variability
In order to account for lead time variability in the inventory cost equation, you should use the following
formula to calculate the demand over lead time:
µDL = µLµD
σDL =
q
µLσ2
D + (µD)2σ2
L
This formula derives from a more general statistical formula that is applied to calculate random sums
of random variables:
E[S] = E[
N
X
i=1
Xi] = E[N]E[X]
V ar[S] = V ar[
N
X
i=1
Xi] = E[N]V ar[X] + (E[X])2V ar[N]
2.4.5
Transportation Product: Main Operations
The transportation products consist of up to four fundamental operations: loading/unloading, linehaul
moves, vehicle routing, and facility sorting. The cost and time associated with each one operation depends
on a series of variables.
Loading/Unloading
• Cost is function of time and labor.
• Time is a function of quantity, ease and stowability.
• Fixed and variable costs with respect to quantity.
Linehaul moves
• Cost is function of time, distance and balance.
• Time is a function of distance.
• Fixed and variable costs with respect to distance and time.
Vehicle routing
• Cost is function of distance, number of stops and time.
• Time is a function of density of stops.
• Fixed and variable costs with respect to number of stops and distance.
• Diﬀerent types of routing:
– One-to-Many – single origin w/multiple stops
– Many-to-One – multiple origins w/single stop
– Interleavened – multiple pickups and deliveries enroute
Facility sorting
• Cost is function of quantity, ease and stowability.
• Fixed and variable costs with respect to quantity.
2.4.6
Transportation Product: Economic Modes
There are a series of underlying economic drivers that should be considered when making decisions about
the transportation product. There economic drivers are: economies of scale, economies of scope, and
economies of density.
The economies of scale refer to the decrease of unitary cost as the volume (scale) increases. This
economies are present when there is a ﬁxed cost of operation. They are found in loading/unloading,
linehaul moves (in vehicle) and facility sorting.
The economies of scope refer to how a ﬁrm’s average unitary cost decreases if another product is
also produced or transported during the same operation. They are related to subadditivity and cost
complementarity. They are found in linehaul moves.
Finally, the economies of density refer to how a ﬁrm’s unitary cost is reduced as the density of
customers or production in a region is increased. They are related to both shipment and location density.
They are found in vehicle routing.
These underlying economic drivers are useful to analyze the economic modes and their options.
There are two types of economic modes in transportation: direct and consolidated. Direct modes re-
fer to linehaul moves that transport goods from one location to another directly, without any stops or
processing. Consolidated modes involve more complex transportation systems in which several linehaul
moves, routing for deliveries or pick-ups, and sorting of goods at hubs or sorting centers take place.
Direct Mode
Consolidated Mode
Economies of Scale
weak, lane based
very strong
Economies of Scope
very strong
weak
Economies of Density
moderate
strong
Number of Vendors
many (perfectly competitive)
fewer (big barriers)
Size of Carrier Base
dozens to hundred
few to one
Design
focus on linehauls and corridors
focus on aggregating low volume lanes
Procure
auction/bid
ad-hoc negotiation
Manage
tiered management by exception
deeper relations with few
Supply Chain Fundamentals
2.4.7
Transportation Problems Examples
We can conclude that, according to the number of points of origin and destination, the transportation
problems can be classiﬁed in four types: one to one, one to many, many to one, many to many.
The one to one (1:1) problem reﬂects the need to transport a certain cargo from a single origin point
to a single destination point directly.
The one to many (1:∞) problem requires to transport certain products from a certain point A to
several diﬀerent destiny points.
The many to one (∞:1) problem represents the challenge of collecting items at several points of origin
and delivering all of them at a certain speciﬁc destination point.
The many to many (∞:∞) problem represents the collection of products at several origin points to
be delivered at several destination points.
Each of these transportation problems will include several basic operations, as illustrated in the table
below:
(1:1)
(1:∞)
(∞:∞)
Loading/unloading
X
X
X
Linehaul
X
X
X
Routing
X
X
Sorting
X
There are methods and techniques that can help us to solve each of these problem types in the most
cost-eﬀective way. In this section, a few of these techniques are explained to calculate linehaul cost, vehicle
routing and cost of sorting, however this is not a comprehensive list of all the methods that can be used
to solve transportation problems.
Costs for transportation:
• Loading: cLF + cLV u(Q)
• Unloading: cUF + cUV u(Q)
• Direct Linehaul: cDF + cDV d(distance) + cDV u(Q)
Total cost per shipment : (cLF + cDF + cUF ) + (cLV u + cDV u + cUV u)(Q) + cDV d(distance)
Total cost per year : (cLV u + cDV u + cUV u)(Q)(S/Q) + [(cLF + cDF + cUF ) + cDV d(distance)][S/Q]
+ (h)(Q/2)
Q∗=
p
(2S[FixedShipCosts]/h)
where cLF , cUF = ﬁxed cost for (un)loading
cLV u, cUV u = variable cost for (un)loading by units
cDF = ﬁxed cost for direct linehaul
cDV d = var cost for direct linehaul by distance
cDV u = var cost for direct linehaul by units
Q = Quantity shipped (units/load)
S = Annual product supply (units/yr)
T = frequency of shipment (yr/lds)
h = holding/penalty cost ($ per year)
distance = length of haul of shipment
Linehaul cost
The objective is to minimize the cost of point to point transportation. This cost will depend on the
point to point distance. There are diﬀerent ways to calculate the point to point distance, which depend
on the topography of the underlying region.
• If Euclidean space, use Euclidean distance: dist((x, y), (a, b)) =
p
(x −a)2 + (y −b)2
• If grid, use Manhattan distance: dist((x, y), (a, b)) =|x-a|+|y-b|
• If random network, use: DA−B =kcf × dA−B, where kcf is the circuity factor or k factor. For short
distances, dA−B can be considered to be the Euclidean distance. The k factor ranges from 1 to 2, or
rarely a higher number, depending on the density or sparsity of the network.
Vehicle Routing
The objective is to ﬁnd minimum cost tours from single origin to multiple destinations using multiple
vehicles. There are many approaches available to solve this problem, and there is usually a trade-oﬀ
between speed and solution quality.
Simple heuristics provide a solution fast, but quality of the solution can vary from problem to problem
(e.g. Sweep Method). Optimization models ﬁnd the optimal solution, but can take a long time to run
(e.g. mixed integer linear programming). Advance heuristics are not as fast as simple heuristics, but they
usually deliver a better quality solution (e.g. Clark-Wright Savings Algorithm).
• Sweep Method:
This is a simple heuristic method. Please, be aware that diﬀerent starting points and directions can
yield diﬀerent solutions.
1. Draw a line from the starting node and select an angle and direction (clockwise or counter-
clockwise).
2. Select a new vehicle, j, that is empty, wj = 0, and has capacity, cj.
3. Rotate the line in the selected direction until it hits a new node, i. (When the line reaches
the starting point, go to step 5).
4. If the demand at i (Di) plus the current load already in the vehicle (wj) is less than the
vehicle capacity, add the new load to the vehicle, wj = Di + wj and go to step 3. Otherwise,
close this vehicle, and go to step 2 to start a new tour.
5. Solve the TSP for each independent vehicle tour.
• Optimization:
Potential routes are inputs to the model and diﬀerent types of cost can be included (not just distance-
related). Mixed integer linear programming is used to select routes
Min
P
j CjYj
Such
that:
PJ
j=1
ajiYj ≥Di
∀i
PJ
j=1
Yj ≤V
P
i
Yij = 1
∀j = t Yj = 0, 1
∀j
– Indices ::: Demand nodes i :::Vehicle routes j
– Input Data : Cj = Total cost of route j ($) ::: Vehicle routes j ::: V = Maximum vehicles ::: aij =1
if node i is in route j; = 0 otherwise
– Decision Variables: Yj =1 if route j is used, =0 otherwise
Supply Chain Fundamentals
• Clark-Wright Savings Algorithm:
The Clarke and Wright savings algorithm is one of the best known heuristic for Vehicle Routing prob-
lems. It applies to problems for which the number of vehicles is not ﬁxed (it is a decision variable).
1. Start with a complete solution (out and back).
2. Identify nodes to link to form a common tour by calculating savings
3. Savings from connecting node i and j:
si,j = co,i + co,j–ci,j
4. Calculate savings for every pair of nodes (all i and j).
5. Sort savings si,j by highest savings ﬁrst.
6. Obtain solution as long as vehicle capacity is not violated and interior tour nodes are not
added.
Example:
– Current tour cost: 2c01 + 2c02
– Joined tour cost: c01 + c12 + c20
– So if 2c01 + 2c02 > c01 + c12 + c20, then go for the joined tour. This will generate savings of:
c01 + c20 −c12
FIGURE 2.17: Savings algorithm
Sorting The impact on using sorting facilities can be evaluated via network design problems (opti-
mization models). Below, we list some of the advantages and disadvantages of using sorting facilites or
hubs.
• Advantages:
– Lower costs through fewer conveyances needed with greater utilization
– Higher LOS with similar or even fewer resources
– Extended reach into smaller and more locations
• Disadvantages:
– Costs of operating the hub
– Higher level on circuity
– Impact on service levels
– Productivity/utilization loss
• Economic Factors:
– Relative O-D versus Hub distances
– Conveyance and shipment sizes
– Demand patterns
– Location of freight versus pax hubs
Learning Objectives
• Understand the common terminology and key concepts of global freight transportation.
• Understand the physical, operational, and strategic networks of a transportation system.
• Acquire the ability to select transportation mode by considering the trade-oﬀs between Level of Service
(LOS) and cost.
• Understand the impact of transportation on inventory costs.
• Understand the diﬀerent transportation products and their characteristics.
• Understand the main operations in transportation problems, and know some of the approaches that
can be used to ﬁnd a cost-eﬀective solution.
References
• Ballou, Ronald H., Business Logistics: Supply Chain Management, 3rd edition, Pearson Prentice Hall,
2003. Chapter 6.
• Chopra, Sunil and Peter Meindl, Supply Chain Management, Strategy, Planning, and Operation, 5th
edition, Pearson Prentice Hall, 2013. Chapter 14.
Supply Chain Fundamentals
2.4.8
Appendix A & B Unit Normal Distribution, Poisson Distribution Tables
FIGURE 2.18: Poisson Distribution
FIGURE 2.19: Normal Distribution
Supply Chain Fundamentals
FIGURE 2.20: Normal Distribution
2.5
Warehousing
2.5.1
Summary
We now move into an important, yet often under-explored component of the supply chain, warehouses.
Warehouses as are often overlooked because they generally do not add value to a product, but are
intermediary stations in the supply chain. Warehouses store, handle and/or ﬂow product. Their primary
operation functions are to receive; put-away; store; pick, pack and ship product. In some cases they play
a role Value-Add Services such as labeling, tagging, special packaging, minor assembling, kitting, re-
pricing, etc. In addition, sometime they play a role in returns. The main approach to assessing warehouse
performance is to proﬁle its activity and benchmark. With continuous assessment and feedback, eﬃciencies
at a warehouse can be improved.
Businesses typically have warehouses to better match supply and demand. Supply is not always in
sync with what is demanded at the store. Having warehouses serves as a buﬀer for unexpected shortages
and demands. In this lesson we will cover warehouse basics of the diﬀerent types of warehouses, their core
operational functions, and common ﬂow patterns. We then review each of the major functions, what is
entailed, and how best to optimize practices. We conclude with diﬀerent ways of assessing performance
for best performance of warehouses.
2.5.2
Warehousing Basics
Based on needs, companies select diﬀerent warehouses. The warehouses can simply be a place to store
additional product or can go all the way to serving a partial assembly and ﬁnishing stage. Within the
warehouse there are two competing priorities: space and time. This means that they want to maximize
their utilization of space and optimize throughput. These are the types of warehouses and their function:
• Raw Material Storage – close to a source or manufacturing points
• WIP Warehouses – partially completed assemblies and components
• Finished Goods warehouses – buﬀers located near point of manufacture
• Local Warehouses – in the ﬁeld near customer locations to provide rapid response to customers
• Fulﬁllment Centers – holds product and ships small orders to individual consumers (cases or eaches)
– predominately for e-commerce
• Distribution Centers – accumulate and consolidate products from multiple sources for common
shipment to common destination/customer
• Mixing Centers – receives material from multiple sources for cross-docking and shipment of mixed
materials (pallets to pallets)
Package Size
Because warehouses are constantly concerned about saving space, this means that the package size is
of great concern. There are several principles in package sizing. The general Handling Rule is: The
smaller the handling unit, the greater the handling cost. As well as that in general, the unit of storage for
a product gets smaller as it moves downstream from container to pallet to case to eaches. Size impacts
design and operations with an inbound and outbound ﬂow from pallets to pallets, pallets to cases and
pallets to eaches.
Supply Chain Fundamentals
FIGURE 2.21: Core Operational Functions
2.5.3
Core Operational Functions
There are several core operational functions in warehouses beyond storage. These include receiving;
putaway; pick; check, pack; ship; as well as additional but not always included steps such as value-added
services and returns. See ﬁgure 5.14.
Receiving
The receiving function of the warehouse is one of the most important because it sets up the interaction at
the warehouse as well as next steps. There are some generally agreed upon best practices which include:
• Use ASNs (advanced shipping notice)
• Integrate yard and dock scheduling
• Prepare for shipment at receiving
• The best option is to minimize receiving activity
• Pursue drop shipping whenever possible
• IF drop ship is not possible, explore cross-docking
Putaway
The putaway function is essentially order picking in reverse. The Warehouse Management System (WMS)
plays a signiﬁcant role in this step by determining storage location for received items (slotting). It also
directs staﬀwhere to place product and records inventory level. Required data for WMS include: size,
weight, cube, height, segmentation status, current orders, current status of pick face as well as identiﬁ-
cation of products and locations.
FIGURE 2.22: Common Flow Patterns
There are diﬀerent approaches to the putaway function, which can be directed (speciﬁc location ahead
of time). It can be batched & sequenced which means there is a pre-sort at staging for commonly located
items. Or it can be chaotic, where the user picks any location and records item-location.
Order Picking
Order Picking is the most labor-intensive task 50-60%. Picking strategies change based on the size of the
object being picked. For instance, full pallet retrieval is the easiest and fastest. Case picking being the
next in ease and small item picking being the most expensive and time consuming. The break down of
order picking eﬀort is:
• Traveling 55%
• Searching 15%
• Extracting 10%
• Other tasks 20%
Layout When selecting a placement for items, the warehouse is typically set up with a ﬂow between
receiving and shipping. The Flow-Through Design places the most convenient items directly in line with
receiving and shipping. A convenient location is one that minimizes total labor time (distance) to putaway
and retrieve.
Min
c
X
i
(dini)
where:
c = labor cost per distance
di = distance for pallet location i from receiving to location to shipping
Supply Chain Fundamentals
ni = average number of times location i is visited per year
∼= # pallets sold / # pallets in order
Simple Heuristic:
1.
Rank all positions from low to high di
2.
Rank all SKUs from high to low nj
3.
Assign next highest SKU (nj) to next lowest location (di)
Aisle Layout
In terms of aisle layout, it is typically best to have aisles parallel to the ﬂow to avoid inconveniences in
ﬂow. Cross aisles in a warehouse can shorten distances, but they take up signiﬁcantly more space and
also increase the amount of aisle crossing. Angled or ﬁshbone aisle can increase eﬃciency especially when
there is a central dispatch point. In addition, fast moving items should be put in convenience locations.
Picking Strategies
Single Picker – Single Order: good for low number of lines/order; suitable for short pick paths; no
need to marry the orders afterwards; travel time can be high
Single Picker – Multiple Orders: expected travel time (distance) per item is reduced; requires
sorting and “marrying” items; can sort “on-cart” or after tour; works for both picker-to-stock and stock-
to-picker.
Multiple Picker - Multiple Orders: well suited for orders with high line count; expected travel
time per item is reduced; minimizes congestion & socializing in pick aisles; pickers can become “experts”
in a zone but lose order completion accountability; requires sorting and consolidation of items; allows for
simultaneous ﬁlling of orders; diﬃcult to balance workload across zones.
Check, Pack & Ship
The ﬁnal function of standard warehouse functions is check, pack & ship. Checking includes creating and
verifying shipping labels and conﬁrming weight and cube. Packing consists of ensure damage protection
and unitize pallets. Shipping is the ﬁnal step; it is essentially the reverse of receiving. Shipping activities
include dock door and yard management; minimizing staging requirements; and container/trailer loading
optimization.
2.5.4
Proﬁling & Assessing Performance
Warehouse Activity Proﬁle
When organizations are either designing a new warehouse/DC or revamping an existing one, there needs
to be some advance critical thinking. For instance, a few data points that are worth looking into include:
• Number of SKUs in the warehouse
• Number of pick-lines per day & number of units per pick-line
• Number & size of customer orders shipped and shipments received per day
• Rate of new SKU introductions and respective lifecycle
When evaluating these data points, we need to make sure to look at the distribution not just the
averages to understand peaks and dips over time. The data sources are typically in the Master SKU data,
order history, and warehouse location.
Segmentation Analysis
We were ﬁrst introduced to segmentation analysis for demand planning, however, it can be applied to
warehousing as well. Segmentation can provide some important insights for warehouse design. Diﬀerent
segmentation views give diﬀerent insights:
Frequency of SKUs sold: Top selling SKUs inﬂuence retail operations – not necessarily warehouse
operations.
Frequency of pallets/cases/cartons by SKU: Will not necessarily follow SKU frequency; pro-
vides insights into receiving, putaway, and restocking.
Frequency of picks by SKU: Order picking drives most labor costs; determines slotting and for-
ward pick locations.
It is also important to note that there is common variability of demand that is aﬀected by seasonality
- such as by year, quarter, day or week, time of day. There is also correlation to other products (aﬃnity
between items and families). These can all have an inﬂuence on how a warehouse/DC should be designed.
Measuring and Benchmarking
To best understand the eﬀective operation of a warehouse, there are a few ways to measure and bench-
mark activity. First, it is important to understand where the major cost drivers are: labor, space, and
equipment. Regular assessment of these can provide feedback on surges and dips of spend. Next there
are key performance measures that provide information about the activity in the warehouse and can be
used to make operational decisions.
Major Warehousing Cost Drivers
Labor = (person-hours/year) x (labor rate)
Space = (area occupied) x (cost of space)
Equipment = (money invested) x (amortization rate)
Performance Measures
Productivity/Eﬃciency: Ratio of output to the inputs required; e.g., labor = (units, cases, or pallets) /
(labor hours expended).
Utilization: Percentage of an asset being actively used; e.g., storage density = (storage capacity in
WH) / (total area of WH)
Quality / Eﬀectiveness: Accuracy in putaway, inventory, picking, shipping, etc.
Cycle Time: Dock-to-Stock time – time from receipt to being ready to be picked; Order Cycle Time
– time from when order is dropped until it is ready to ship.
Learning Objectives
• Review types of warehouse and recognize their primary use.
• Understand the core functions of the warehouse.
• Become familiar with common ﬂow patterns of a warehouse.
• Review the activities within each of the functions and how to optimize them.
• Recognize how to assess and benchmark warehouse activity.
Supply Chain Fundamentals
References
• Bartholdi, J. and S. Hackman (2016). Warhouse & Distribution Science (Release 0.97)
• Frazelle, E. (2011). World Class Warehousing and Material Handling.
